Question: Subscribe/Unsubscribe to a LISTSERV list.
Article Text: To Subscribe to a List via Email Using the email address you would like to subscribe with, send an email to listserv@lists.hawaii.edu with no subject and the body of the message containing the "subscribe" command followed by the list name and your first and last names (e.g., subscribe testlist-l John Doe). Make sure that the subject line is empty and there is no other text in the body of the message, including your email signature. Some lists may require you to confirm your subscription request; simply click on the link within the email to confirm your request. If the list is set up to require owner approval, you will receive a notice that your request was forwarded to the list owner(s). You will receive a message from LISTSERV indicating that you have been subscribed. Alternatively, you will receive an error message if the list you entered does not exist or you typed the command incorrectly. To Subscribe to a List via the Web Go to https://listserv.hawaii.edu and log in to LISTSERV (see Accessing LISTSERV via the Web) After logging in, click on Subscriptions in the LISTSERV menu on the left. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. Click on Customize Report, select Show All Lists from the drop-down menu, and click Update. Check the boxes next to the lists that you want to subscribe to. From the drop-down menu at the bottom of the List Name column, select the Subscribe option and click Update. Some lists may require you to confirm your subscription request; simply click on the link within the email to confirm your request. If the list is set up to require owner approval, you will receive a notice that your request was forwarded to the list owner(s). To Unsubscribe from a List via Email Using the email address you subscribed with, send an email to listserv@lists.hawaii.edu with no subject and the body of the message containing the "signoff" command followed by the list name (e.g., signoff testlist-l). Make sure that the subject line is empty and there is no other text in the body of the message, including your email signature. You will receive a message from LISTSERV indicating that you have been unsubscribed. Alternatively, you will receive an error message if the list you entered does not exist or you typed the command incorrectly. To Unsubscribe from a List via the Web Go to https://listserv.hawaii.edu and log in to LISTSERV (see Accessing LISTSERV via the Web) After logging in, click on Subscriptions in the LISTSERV menu on the left. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. Check the box next to each list you want to unsubscribe from. From the drop-down menu at the bottom of the List Name column, select the Unsubscribe option and click Update. To Manage Your Subscription Go to https://listserv.hawaii.edu and log in to LISTSERV (see Accessing LISTSERV via the Web) After logging in, click on Subscriptions in the LISTSERV menu on the left. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. Check the box next to each list you want to modify settings for. Using the drop-down menus at the bottom of the table, select the Mail Style and Mail Status settings you would like applied to each list you checked off in Step 3 and click Update.
