Question: Configuring Android for UH Mail
Article Text: Please be sure your Android phone is connected to a cellular or wireless network before attempting to send/receive email. Enable IMAP for Google@UH Gmail here. Android mail apps may differ in appearance across different devices. These directions may not exactly match the options you see. These steps are intended as a guide, If you encounter issues feel free to contact the ITS Help Desk for further assistance. To add a Hawaii.edu email account Touch the Search function on the Home screen or from the settings. search for Mail screen. Press Mail Icon (This will be the Gmail applicationunless you're using a Samsung Model phone). This will open your personal Gmail account used to set up the Android Phone. Tap on your Account icon in the top right, then tap on Add another account. In the Setup Email screen, You can choose Google to sync related google apps with your Hawaii.edu account or Choose Other to manually set up gmail and only sync your mailbox. Enter your full email address, including the @hawaii.edu, and password when prompted by the UH login. For Manual setup. Incoming server settings(IMAP) Username: <username@hawaii.edu> Password: Type your password IMAP Server: imap.gmail.com Port: 993 Security type: SSL IMAP Path prefix: Leave this field blank Outgoing server settings(SMTP) SMTP server: smtp.gmail.com Port: 465 Security Type: SSL Require sign-in: Select this option Username: <username@hawaii.edu> Password: Type your password Enter a name for the account, e.g. Google@UH Gmail, confirm how you want your display name to appear in outgoing mail, i.e. Your Name, and touch Done. To change an account's settings Open the Accounts screen. Touch Manage accounts on this device. Touch The account in question. When you're finished changing settings, press Back . To delete an email account Open the Accounts screen. Touch Manage accounts on this device. Touch The account in question. Touch Remove account in the menu that opens. Touch OK in the dialog to confirm that you want to delete the account.
