Question: How do I create an event in Google@UH Calendar?
Article Text: Creating an event using the "Create Event" button Click the Create Event button in the upper-left of Google@UH Calendar. Fill in the title, date, starting time, end time, location, and description of your event. If you're using multiple calendars, you can also select which calendar this event should be on from the Calendar drop-down menu. If you'd like to be reminded of your event, set your desired notification setting. You can be notified by email, text message, or a pop-up message on your computer (though this one only works if Google@UH Calendar is currently open on your computer). Click Save. Creating an event by click and type Click on the day where you'd like to create a new event. If the event spans over an hour, click and drag. Type the title of your new event in the box. Finally, click "Create Event" to add the event to your calendar immediately, or click "Edit event details" to add additional information. Creating an event from the calendar list A list of calendars you've created or subscribed to is located on the left side of your calendar, within a box titled "My Calendars". From this list, click on the down-arrow button next to the calendar you wish to add an event to. Then, select "Create event on this calendar." Creating an event using the "Quick Add" feature Click on the "Quick Add" link on the upper left of Google@UH Calendar, or type the letter "q" (while in Google@UH Calendar). A box will appear. Enter your event's information into the box in this format: Title Time Day/Date For example, entering Dinner at Genki Sushi 8PM Friday will place an event titled "Dinner at Genki Sushi" at 8pm the Friday of the week you are on. Entering Dinner at Genki Sushi 8PM 11/21 will place an event titled "Dinner at Genki Sushi" at 8pm on November 21, 2010. After you enter the event information in the box, press the "Return" or "Enter" key. For more information about the Quick Add feature, please visit http://www.google.com/support/calendar/bin/answer.py?answer=36604
