Question: How do I create a task in Google@UH Calendar?
Article Text: If the Tasks list is not showing, on the left side of Google@UH Calendar, under the "My Calendars" section, click on Tasks. The Tasks gadget will appear on the right side of your calendar grid. Click the + icon on the bottom of the Tasks gadget. You can also create a new task by clicking on a blank space within the Tasks gadget. A cursor will appear next to a checkbox. Type the title of your task here. If you wish to add a due date to your task, click on the “>” symbol that’s on the right side of your task’s title, then click on the calendar icon to select a date. Tasks that have due dates will automatically appear on your calendar in the All Day event section. You may add notes to your task in the Notes box that also appears when you click on >. Click on “Back to list” to return to your list of tasks. Another way to create a task with a due date is to click on an empty spot in the All Day section (available in the Day or Week views), or in the Month view. In the window that appears, click on the Task link, and fill in the appropriate information. When you are done, click on Create Task. Note that the due date for tasks created this way will be the day you clicked on. Notes: To mark a task as complete, click on the checkbox next to the task. You can remove completed tasks from the list (without deleting them) by clicking on the Action button at the bottom of the Tasks gadget, and selecting Clear completed tasks. If you ever need to view these tasks again, click on the Action button, then select View completed tasks. To delete a task, select it and click the trash can icon on the bottom of the Tasks gadget. To print a list of your tasks, click on the Actions button at the bottom of the Tasks gadget and select Print task list. To modify a task's due date, drag the task to a new day (as you would with a calendar event). You will see the same Task list whether you are in Google@UH Mail or Calendar. For more information on Tasks, please visit http://www.google.com/support/calendar/bin/topic.py?hl=en&topic=22063
