Question: About MyUH Services
Article Text: MyUH Services is a mobile-optimized, one stop shop for UH business tasks, forms, apps and more. It includes one-click access to services customized for students, faculty and staff across our 10-campus system and has replaced the previous MyUH portal as of April 4, 2017. Search, Click, Done! Use the search field at the top of the page to find what you need on the MyUH Services site. If you are getting too many results from your search, try filtering the results using the category, campus and/or role pull-downs. Something is missing While many popular University of Hawai'i tasks have been published to MyUH Services, not all are available yet. We ask your kokua as our team works to add more services to the site. If you know of a service that should be included, let the MyUH Services team know using this MyUH Services listing request form. Customize MyUH Services To make the most of MyUH Services, log in using your UH user id. This allows you to set your display preferences, select a default campus and bookmark your most-used services by favoriting with the heart icon. It also logs you in to many UH services you may be accessing, including Google apps. Questions, comments or suggestions? We'd love to hear from you! Please use the Contact form (available in the pulldown under your name after you login to MyUH Services) or email us at myuh-feedback@lists.hawaii.edu to let us know what you think. FAQ How do I get my service or app listed in MyUH Services? If your campus, college, department or unit has a web application or service-oriented content that you would like to make available in MyUH Services, please submit it using the MyUH Services listing request form. How do I find services specific to my campus? There are several ways to find campus-specific resources in MyUH Services. Login to MyUH Services and set your preferred campus. Use the campus dropdown to select your preferred campus (no login required). Search on the campus name (Manoa, Windward, Hawai'i, etc). Note that there are many system-wide services that apply to students, faculty and staff of all campuses, including IT services, registration, administrative tasks and more. Do I need to log in to use MyUH Services? No. No login is required to use MyUH Services search functionality. However, many of the services you access do require a login and the site will work better for you if you do log in.
