Question: UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Adding Devices
Article Text: This article will explain how to register devices for multi-factor authentication. Setting up a Smartphone Setting up a Landline Setting up a Tablet Setting up a non-Smartphone Cellular Phone If you are not sure which authentication method to use, please review the article, UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Which authentication method should I use?. ITS recommends that you register at least 2 devices. For example: your office landline and your smartphone. Setting up a Smartphone Although the screenshots are for an iPhone, the steps are the same for iPhones and Android phones. Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. If you have not yet registered any devices, you will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button, then proceed to Step 4. If you have already setup a device, at the next screen, click on Add a new device (located on the left side, under the gold seal). You will then see the following screen. Click on the green button for the method you wish to use. Select the authentication method you wish to use. For this example, we will register a mobile phone. Select Mobile phone, then click Continue. If necessary, select the country of your phone. Type your phone number, including area code (no parentheses or dashes are needed). Double check that the correct phone number is shown immediately beneath the box. If so, check the box next to the phone number. Click on Continue. Select your device type, then click Continue. If you have downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your phone, go to the next step. If you have not yet downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your phone, follow the directions within the box to download. You can also visit one of the following links from your smartphone (not your computer): iOS: Duo Mobile for iOS Android: Duo Mobile for Android [Note: to download from the Android Play Store, you need to be enrolled in Consumer Apps or logged in with a gmail.com account.] You will see a barcode displayed. Open the Duo Mobile app on your phone. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to send Notifications, please allow notifications. Press the + icon in the upper right corner, or press on the Add Account button. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to access the Camera, please allow access. Point your phone's camera (the camera's display should be shown on the phone's screen) at the barcode. Once the barcode is properly within the display, it will automatically be recognized. You can tell it was successful if you see a green checkmark within the barcode. Once you see the green checkmark, click on Continue. You should be at the My Settings & Devices window. You should see a list of all your registered devices, with a Just Added next to the device you just added. This means that you have successfully registered the new device. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Setting up a Landline Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. If you have not yet registered any devices, you will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button, then proceed to Step 4. If you have already setup a device, at the next screen, click on Add a new device (located on the left side, under the gold seal). You will then see the following screen. Click on the green button for the method you wish to use. Select the authentication method you wish to use. For this example, we will register a landline. Select Landline, then click Continue. If necessary, select the country of your phone. Type your phone number, including area code (no parentheses or dashes are needed). If you have an extension, type it in the Extension: box. Double check that the correct phone number is shown immediately beneath the box. If so, check the box next to the phone number. Scroll down, and click on Continue. You should be at the My Settings & Devices window. You should see a list of all your registered devices, with a Just Added next to the device you just added. This means that you have successfully registered the new device. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Setting up a Tablet Although the screenshots are for an Android tablet, the steps are the same for iOS tablets (iPad and iPod Touch) and Android tablets. Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. If you have not yet registered any devices, you will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button, then proceed to Step 4. If you have already setup a device, at the next screen, click on Add a new device (located on the left side, under the gold seal). You will then see the following screen. Click on the green button for the method you wish to use. Select the authentication method you wish to use. For this example, we will register a tablet. Select Tablet, then click Continue. Select the appropriate type of device. For this example, we will select Android. Click Continue. If you have downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your tablet, go to the next step. If you have not yet downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your tablet, follow the directions within the box to download. You can also visit one of the following links from your tablet (not your computer): iOS: Duo Mobile for iOS Android: Duo Mobile for Android [Note: to download from the Android Play Store, you need to be enrolled in Consumer Apps or logged in with a gmail.com account.] You will see a barcode displayed. Open the Duo Mobile app on your tablet. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to send Notifications, please allow notifications. Press the + icon in the upper right corner, or press on the Add Account button. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to access the Camera, please allow access. Point your tablet's camera (the camera's display should be shown on the phone's screen) at the barcode. Once the barcode is properly within the display, it will automatically be recognized. You can tell it was successful if you see a green checkmark within the barcode. Once you see the green checkmark, click on Continue. You should be at the My Settings & Devices window. You should see a list of all your registered devices, with a Just Added next to the device you just added. This means that you have successfully registered the new device. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Setting up a non-smartphone Cellular Phone Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. If you have not yet registered any devices, you will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button, then proceed to Step 4. If you have already setup a device, at the next screen, click on Add a new device (located on the left side, under the gold seal). You will then see the following screen. Click on the green button for the method you wish to use. Select the authentication method you wish to use. For this example, we will register a mobile phone. Select Mobile phone then click Continue. If necessary, select the country of your phone. Type your phone number, including area code (no parentheses or dashes are needed). Double check that the correct phone number is shown immediately beneath the box. If so, check the box next to the phone number. Click on Continue. Select Other as your device type, then click Continue. You should be at the My Settings & Devices window. You should see a list of all your registered devices, with a Just Added next to the device you just added. This means that you have successfully registered the new device. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site.
