Question: UH Account Closure
Article Text: Students, Non-retiring Faculty/Staff, and UH Affiliates Retiring Faculty/Staff, and Emeriti Deceased Student or Employee/Affiliate UH Account Termination Student, Non-retiring Faculty/Staff, and UH Affiliate Students who are not registered for classes for consecutive (Fall, Spring) semesters, Faculty and Staff who leave UH, but are not retiring, and UH Affiliates whose affiliations expire, transition to the role of 'Ohana. 'Ohana will have a grace period of up to 180 days, during which they will continue to have full access to basic online services, unless there is a request to terminate the UH Email Account sooner, or because of violations to the acceptable use policy (https://www.hawaii.edu/infotech/policies/itpolicy.html). ITS will inform each individual via email when they begin the grace period and ITS will send periodic reminders throughout the grace period to help keep them aware of the approach of the end of the grace period. During the grace period, they will have the option to enroll in our 'Ohana online services, which will keep the individual's UH email account active and available. After the grace period ends, if an individual has enrolled in our 'Ohana online services, their UH email account, along with all email messages and folders stored in the account, will continue to be available contingent on annual renewal of this enrollment. The UH email account, and all email messages and documents stored in the account, will be no longer be available should an individual fail to enroll in 'Ohana online services prior to the end of the grace period. Retiring Faculty/Staff, and Emeriti Faculty and Staff who retire from UH, as well as Emeriti, are allowed continued use of their UH Email Account. Use of the UH Email Account is subject to an annual renewal. Email reminders will be sent to Retirees and Emeriti regarding their respective upcoming renewal deadline. For more details about basic online services for Retirees and Emeriti, see https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/933. Deceased Student or Employee/Affiliate Student In the unfortunate event that a UH student should pass away, the following procedure will be used by ITS: The appropriate Dean of Student Services notifies the ITS Help Desk of the event. The following information is required so that the ITS Help Desk can create an auto-reply message. UH Username or UH Number of the deceased Name of the deceased ITS will set the account to auto-reply to incoming messages. The standard message (subject to change by Dean) is: This is an automated message: This email is no longer available. ITS clears the password. On the date ITS is notified of the event, the account will remain open for 180 days, after which the account is deleted. Employee/Affiliate In the unfortunate event that an employee or UH affiliated person should pass away, the following procedure will be used by ITS: Dean/Director notifies ITS of the event and ITS will change the account’s password. The following information is required so that ITS can create an auto-reply message and to ensure that no new email is accepted Name of the deceased Responsible party in the unit to whom external correspondents can be referred, typically the manager, department chair, dean, director, etc. For this individual, we require their name, title, and email address. Dean/Director notifies ITS of the email agent who will be responsible for reviewing the email of the deceased to ensure that no official business is outstanding. The email agent would be the person entrusted to go through the desk of the deceased to separate personal items from UH business materials. ITS will set the account to auto-reply to incoming messages. The standard message (subject to change by Dean/Director) is: This is an automated message. First name Last name is no longer working at the University of Hawaii. You may contact Responsible-First name Responsible-Last name, Responsible-Title, at responsible-email-address. ITS clears password and forwards it to the email agent The email agent identified reviews all old emails to identify any unread messages that require official action/response. These are either replied to or forwarded as appropriate based on context. Upon completion of the review and handling, the email agent can either delete all messages or ask ITS to do so. On the date ITS is notified of the event, the account will remain open for 180 days, after which the account is deleted. Account Termination University unit authorities (e.g. Vice Presidents, Chancellors, Vice Chancellors, Deans, Directors, Department Head, Administrative Officers, etc.) can request a UH Account termination for a faculty, staff, or affiliate under their purview by making a formal request on departmental letterhead. The signature of the University unit authority (or their designee) is required. When the termination is requested, it is possible that the individual using the UH Account has established additional affiliations with UH, such as becoming a student or becoming a faculty or staff with another UH unit. ITS will research all termination requests in order to ascertain if there are additional affiliations by the individual. If there are no other affiliations, the UH Email Account will be flagged for termination. By default, the UH Account will remain open for 180 days. If access to the UH Account must be immediately cut-off, the letter must explicitly request this. Requests should be sent via File Drop to the ITS Help Desk at help@hawaii.edu
