Question: IT Policy and Guidelines: UH Manoa Wireless Networks
Article Text: As with all shared resources of the University, policies and guidelines are established to ensure equitable and reliable access to limited resources for all members of the University community. The UH Manoa network infrastructure is considered to be a shared resource and as it is extended through the use of wireless network devices, it becomes essential to define and describe how wireless technologies are to be deployed to protect the accessibility and integrity of the entire UH network. Use of the UH Manoa network (wired and wireless) is governed by UH Executive Policy: E2.210 -- Use and Management of Information Technology Resources. This document is available on-line at: http://www.hawaii.edu/infotech/policies/itpolicy.html. This document describes how wireless technologies are to be deployed, administered, and supported at the University of Hawaii Manoa campus. General information about the UH Manoa wireless infrastructure can be found at: http://www.hawaii.edu/wireless. To ensure the integrity, reliability, and security of the UH Manoa Network, Information Technology Services (ITS) reserves the right to restrict the use of wireless devices and/or determine what devices can be connected to the network and how these devices should be configured. Purpose This document provides guidelines for deployment and usage of wireless devices on the Manoa Campus. The guidelines provision a minimum level of wireless security, network reliability and will minimize network interference from other devices utilizing the same wireless frequency spectrum. Scope of this document This document is intended to cover any and all wireless devices within the UH Manoa campus. This includes, but are not limited to, wireless access points, wireless routers, wireless phones, etc. Suitability For data networks, wireless networks should not be considered a replacement for a wired network. It should be seen only as an extension to the existing wired network for general purpose access in areas of transient use such as common areas. A wireless access point provides shared bandwidth. As more users connect to the access point, the available bandwidth per user diminishes. Therefore, wireless networks are not appropriate for high bandwidth applications such as video streaming. It is most suited for applications such as email and Web browsing. Wireless devices should not be used to access administrative information systems such as FMIS, ISIS/Banner, Peoplesoft, etc. that contain sensitive and confidential information unless using encrypted protocols. ITS reserves the right to restrict access to services and resources that are disruptive to the wireless network, or pose a threat to the University's information security, audit or accreditation status when used from the wireless network. Coverage ITS installs and maintains data wireless access in many buildings and public spaces. This wireless coverage will continue to expand as resources become available. For a more complete coverage map, please refer to: https://manoa.hawaii.edu/campusmap/wireless.php. Data wireless networks in departmentally controlled spaces can be deployed in two ways: 1) ITS -installed and managed; or 2) self-supported: departmentally/organizationally installed and managed. Self-supported wireless networks must be installed in consultation with ITS to prevent network outages, frequency conflicts, and to maintain the integrity of the UH Network by preventing unauthorized access. Management & Support For ITS installed and managed wireless devices in public spaces, ITS will assume responsibility to maintain, update, and upgrade these devices. For ITS-installed and managed wireless devices in departmentally controlled spaces, ITS will assume responsibility to maintain, update, and upgrade these devices. When consulting ITS, departments will be advised of the cost of installation and maintenance. In physical spaces shared by more than one organization, ITS will try to work with all organizations to reach a mutually beneficial and agreeable arrangement for all. Where possible, and when requested by departments/faculty, ITS will wireless-enable general purpose classrooms under our Manoa general purpose classroom support effort, on a best effort basis. Requests for assistance with planning for wireless networks can be made by calling the ITS Telecom office at: 956-6033. Self-Supported: If an organization is installing and maintaining their own wireless devices, at a minimum, the device standards & configurations should be: 802.11b standards, configured to be "closed" and WEP-enabled and preferably, support for LDAP and Radius. Radio Spectrum Management There are many devices which share the same radio spectrum as the UH Wireless Network on the Manoa campus. This includes, but is not limited to 2.4GHz cordless phones, wireless cameras or speakers which may interfere with the wireless network. Also a wireless access point using the same frequency range as another unit may cause interference and degrade the quality of the wireless signal. To prevent such disruptions on the UH Wireless Network, the use of other devices using the 2.4GHz frequency range are banned from areas that are now or may soon have wireless coverage. Non-2.4GHz alternatives are available for most of these other devices. Also installation of self-supported data wireless access points must be coordinated with ITS to prevent frequency conflicts. Security The wireless infrastructure should not be relied upon as being secure. While a minimal level of security is provided through user authentication for ITS-managed wireless access points, application and data protection is still the responsibility of the application and data owners. For departmentally deployed wireless networks, wireless access points should be configured to validate their identity (either using their UH Username or a departmental ID) to prevent unauthorized access of the network. Should ITS encounter a device that is interfering with the UH Manoa network infrastructure, ITS will attempt to notify the administrator on a time permitting basis but reserves the right to disconnect the device without notification. ITS' first priority is to restore the network to its normal operating state. Any person attaching a wireless device to the UH Manoa Network is responsible for the security of the device and for any intentional or unintentional activities from or to the network pathway that the device is using. Users and system administrators must guard against abuses that disrupt or threaten the network and any systems connected to it.
