Question: Adding a Network Printer
Article Text: General Information This article explains how to add a network printer to both Mac's and PC's. Before you begin, you will need to know the IP Address of the printer as well as the make and model of the printer. Windows 10 Click on Start > Settings. Click Devices. Select Printers & Scanners. Click the Add a printer or scanner button. Windows will scan for available printers. Click the printer you want to add and click the Add device button next to your printer. Windows will attempt to install your printer. If your printer is not available, click The printer that I want isn't listed to add it via IP address. Set Device type to TCP/IP Device and type the IP address and click Next. Select the correct driver to use and click Next. At the Type a printer name screen you can keep the default name or change it. You can also choose to set it as default or not. Click Next. The printer will now install. Select Do not shar this printer and click Next. Select if you want this pritner to be your default and print a test page if you wish. Click Finish. Windows 11 Click on Start > Settings. Click Bluetooth & devices from the left-hand side of the window. Select Printers & Scanners. Click the Add device button. Windows will scan for available printers. Click the Add device button next to your printer. Windows will attempt to install your printer. If your printer is not available, click the Add manually button to add it via IP address. Set Device type to TCP/IP Device and type the IP address and click Next. Select the correct driver to use and click Next. At the Type a printer name screen you can keep the default name or change it. You can also choose to set it as default or not. Click Next. The printer will now install. Select Do not shar this printer and click Next. Select if you want this pritner to be your default and print a test page if you wish. Click Finish. Mac OS 10.6 Click on Apple > System Preferences. Click on Print & Fax. Click on the + at the lower left side to add a new printer. At the top of the page choose IP. Protocol: Line Printer Daemon - LPD Address: The printers IP address Queue: Leave Blank Name: You can enter the printer model here. Location: Enter the printers location if you wish Print Using: Select the correct printer driver for the printer model from the list if available. If there is no driver available, you can try to use the Generic Post Script driver, or download the correct driver from the manufactures website. Click Add. Mac OS 10.7/10.8 Click on Apple > System Preferences. Click on Print & Scan. Click on the + at the lower left side to add a new printer. At the top of the page choose IP. Protocol: Line Printer Daemon - LPD Address: The printers IP address Queue: Leave Blank Name: You can enter the printer model here. Location: Enter the printers location if you wish Print Using: Select the correct printer driver for the printer model from the list if available. If there is no driver available, you can try to use the Generic Post Script driver, or download the correct driver from the manufactures website. Click Add.
