Question: UH Username End of Life - Saving Email and Personal Webpages (MacOS)
Article Text: This document is for users who are no longer affiliated with UH, and who have received a notice that they have 180 day grace period before their email and personal webpage data are removed from the UH servers. The following instructions show you how to copy webpage data and emails stored on your UH account to a local drive on your computer. Saving your UH Email You will also need to copy any email stored on your UH email account that you wish to keep after your 180 day grace period ends. We recommend using Google Takeout to export and download all email messages from your UH email account. Please note that you will need to enable Consumer Apps to use Google Takeout with your UH account. Saving personal webpages using FileZilla Prior to the end of your 180 day grace period, you will need to copy any data stored on the UHUnix server onto your own computer. The data stored on UHUnix includes any personal webpages that you created on your allocated UH web space at http://www2.hawaii.edu/~youruhusername. Note: This document was written using FileZilla on Mac OS 10.12. Other SFTP applications should work as well, but the procedures may differ. Copy files/folders to your computer In FileZilla, connect to your UHUnix account using either the Quickconnet or Site Manager setup. See the FileZilla for Macintosh article for assistance with installation. Once authenticated, you will be taken to your home directory in UHUnix, and you should see any data stored on the server in the right pane of the FileZilla window. Next, open the folder on your computer where you would like to copy your data to in the left pane of the FileZilla window. Optionally, you can create a new folder on your computer through FileZilla by ctrl + clicking on and typing a name for the folder. You have the option to create directory or create a directory and enter it so that you are in the correct directory on the local side. Copy the files/folders from UHUnix to the open folder on your computer by selecting the files/folders that you want from the right pane of the FileZilla window, and dragging them to the left pane. Multiple files/folders may be selected by pressing Command+A (to select all items), or by holding SHIFT or Command and clicking on the files you want to select. Verify successful copy of files and folders Once you have completed copying all of the necessary files and folders, verify that all files and folders are now stored on your computer by browsing to the folder where your data was copied on your computer using the Finder.
