Executive Policy, EP 2.217
HIPAA
Page 1 of 25
Executive Policy Chapter 2, Administration
Executive Policy EP 2.217, HIPAA Policy
Effective Date: June 2017
Prior Dates Amended: None
Responsible Office: Office of the Vice President for Information Technology & Chief
Information Officer
Governing Board of Regents Policy RP 2.202 – Duties of the President
Review Date: May 2020
I. Purpose
The purpose of this executive policy is to ensure that the University of Hawai‘i
(the “University”) complies with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act
of 1996, as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
(“ARRA”), which included the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical
Health Act (“HITECH”) that expanded the scope of privacy and security protections, and
by the implementing regulations at 45 Code of Federal Regulations (“CFR”) Parts 160,
162 and 164, as amended (collectively referred to as “HIPAA”). The objectives of this
policy (hereinafter, “HIPAA Policy”) are to establish University System-wide policies and
procedures to:
A. Designate the University as a Hybrid Entity as defined in HIPAA.
B. Establish fundamental principles governing the University’s management and
use of Protected Health Information (“PHI”) as required by HIPAA, including
electronic Protected Health Information (“ePHI”) as all such terms are defined
in HIPAA and as more specifically set forth in paragraphs II.H and T herein.
C. Establish a set of standardized terms and definitions to promote consistent
interpretation and implementation of the University’s HIPAA Policy.
D. Establish clear lines of authority and accountability related to PHI.
E. Set forth best practices for HIPAA compliance with the ongoing objectives of:
1. Identifying University units and subunits (and their activities) that are
subject to HIPAA (collectively the “UH Covered Components”) that are
more specifically defined in this HIPAA Policy in paragraphs II.V and III.A.
2. Managing and mitigating information privacy and security risks related to
PHI.
The federal regulations protecting PHI are complex, and this University HIPAA
Policy distills those regulations and provides for additional training regarding the
regulations. An annotated version of the Policy, which contains citations to specific
regulations, is available from the University System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s) (defined herein and as more specifically set forth in paragraph III.E herein). In
EP 2.217
Page 2 of 25
the event of any inconsistency between this HIPAA Policy and HIPAA, HIPAA shall
control. Any questions about this HIPAA Policy may be directed to the “Unit HIPAA
Coordinator” and the “UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s)” (as defined
herein), or the Chief Information Security Officer or the Office of General Counsel, as
appropriate.
This HIPAA Policy covers PHI, which does not include all health information
collected by the University. PHI does not include, for example, information that is
considered education records covered by the Family Educational Right and Privacy Act
(“FERPA”) and excluded from HIPAA, as well as employment records held by any unit
or subunit in its role as an employer. Any health information not protected under this
HIPAA Policy is covered under Executive Policy (“EP”) 2.214, as amended, and other
applicable University policies, and all University units and subunits maintaining such
non-PHI health information must comply with EP 2.214.
II. Definitions
The University adopts and uses the following definitions set forth in HIPAA,
specifically including the HIPAA regulations at 45 CFR Parts 160, 162, and 164, as
amended. Capitalized terms are used herein as defined in HIPAA unless the context
requires otherwise.
A. Authorization: A document that is required to be signed by the patient to use
and disclose specified PHI for specified purposes. (A standard University
Authorization template is attached hereto as Attachment 1-A.)
B. Business Associate: A person or entity (other than an employee of a UH
Covered Component) who performs a function or activity involving the use or
disclosure of PHI on behalf of a Covered Entity, including but not limited to
claims processing or administration, data analysis, processing or
administration, utilization review, quality assurance, billing, benefit
management, practice management, re-pricing, legal, actuarial, accounting,
consulting, data aggregation, management, administrative, accreditation, or
financial services. Business associates include a health information
organization, e-prescribing gateway, or other vendors who provide data
transmission services that require access to PHI on a routine basis; entities
that offer personal health records; and subcontractors that receive PHI on
behalf of the business associate. A business associate of one UH Covered
Component does not automatically become a business associate of any other
UH Covered Component.
C. Consent: A general document that Covered Entities may obtain giving health
care providers, which have a direct treatment relationship with a patient,
permission to use and disclose all PHI to carry out treatment, payment or
health care operations. It gives permission only to that provider, not to any
other person. Health care providers may condition the provision of treatment
EP 2.217
Page 3 of 25
on the individual providing this consent. One Consent may cover all uses and
disclosures for treatment, payment or health care operations by that provider
and business associates, indefinitely. A Consent need not specify the
particular information to be used or disclosed, nor the recipients of disclosed
information. (A standard University Consent template is attached hereto as
Attachment 1-B.)
D. Covered Entity: A health plan, health care clearinghouse, or a health care
provider who transmits any health information in electronic form.
E. Covered Function: Those functions of a Covered Entity, the performance of
which makes the entity a health plan, health care provider, or health care
clearinghouse.
F. Direct Treatment Relationship: A treatment relationship between an individual
and a health care provider that is not an indirect treatment relationship.
G. Disclosure: The release, transfer, provision of access to, or divulging in any
other manner of PHI outside of the entity holding and/or maintaining the
information.
H. Electronic Protected Health Information (“ePHI”): Information that is
transmitted or maintained by electronic media that comes within the definition
of PHI as defined below.
I. Health Care Component: A component of a Hybrid Entity designated by the
Hybrid Entity that functions as a health care provider, as defined by HIPAA.
J. Health Care Operations: Any of the activities set forth in the HIPAA
regulations that includes but is not limited to the following:
1. Conducting quality assessment and improvement activities, including
outcomes evaluation and development of clinical guidelines, population-
based activities relating to improving health or reducing health care costs;
protocol development, case management and care coordination,
contacting of health care providers and patients with information about
treatment alternatives; and related functions that do not include treatment;
2. Reviewing the competence or qualifications of health care professionals,
evaluating performance, conducting training programs for health care and
non-health care professionals, and participating in accreditation,
certification, licensing or credentialing activities;
3. Underwriting, premium rating and other activities relating to health plan
contracts;
4. Conducting medical review, legal services, auditing and compliance
functions;
5. Business planning and development and business management and
general administrative activities, including, but not limited to, customer
service, resolution of internal grievances, and due diligence.
EP 2.217
Page 4 of 25
K. HIPAA Privacy Rule: The HIPAA Privacy Rule is defined as set forth in 45
CFR Part 160 and Subparts A and E of Part 164.
L. HIPAA Security Rule: The HIPAA Security Rule is defined as set forth in 45
CFR Part 160 and Subparts A and C of Part 164.
M. Hybrid Entity: A single legal entity that is a Covered Entity whose business
activities include both Covered Functions and non-Covered Functions.
N. Indirect Treatment Relationship: A relationship between an individual and a
health care component in which the health care component delivers health
care to the individual based on the orders of another health care provider and
the health care component typically provides services or products, or reports
the diagnosis or results associated with the health care, directly to another
health care provider, who provides the services or products or reports to the
patient.
O. Individual: The person who is the subject of PHI.
P. Individually Identifiable Health Information (“IIHI”): Information that is a
subset of health information, including demographic information collected
from an individual, and: (1) Is created or received by a health care provider,
health plan, employer, or health care clearinghouse; (2) Relates to the past,
present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual; the
provision of health care to an individual; or the past, present, or future
payment for the provision of health care to an individual; and (3) That
identifies the individual, or might reasonably be used to identify the individual.
Q. Minimum Necessary: To make reasonable efforts to limit the use or disclosure
of, and requests for, PHI to the least amount of PHI necessary to accomplish
the intended purpose of the use or disclosure.
R. Payment: The activities described in HIPAA, including, but not limited to,
those undertaken by a provider to obtain or provide reimbursement for the
provision of health care, including, but not limited to determinations of
eligibility or coverage; risk adjusting amounts due; billing, claims
management, and collection activities; review of health care services with
respect to medical necessity and coverage; utilization review activities,
including precertification and preauthorization of services; and disclosure to
consumer reporting agencies of the following information: name/address, date
of birth, social security number, payment history, account number, and name
and address of the provider.
S. Personal Representative: Someone with the legal authority to act on behalf of
an incompetent adult patient, a minor patient or a deceased patient or the
patient’s estate in making health care decisions or in exercising the patient’s
rights related to the individual’s PHI.
EP 2.217
Page 5 of 25
T. Protected Health Information (“PHI”): Health information, including
demographic information collected from an individual and created or received
by a health provider, health plan, employer, or health care clearinghouse that
relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of
any individual; the provision of health care to an individual; or the past,
present, or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual,
and that identifies an individual or there is a reasonable basis to believe the
information can be used to identify the individual and that is transmitted or
maintained by electronic media or any other form or medium. (PHI does not
include IIHI in education records covered by FERPA and excluded from
HIPAA, as well as employment records held by any unit or subunit in its role
as an employer.)
U. Treatment: The provision, coordination, or management of health care
services by providers, including the coordination or management of health
care by a provider with a third party; consultation between providers relating
to a patient; or the referral of a patient for health care from one provider to
another.
V. UH Covered Components: Units or subunits of the University designated by
the University as Covered Entities and required to comply with HIPAA
because the unit or subunit performs a Covered Function as a health care
component. (The terms “UH Covered Component” or “UH Covered
Components” are distinguishable from the generic HIPAA term “Covered
Entity” defined above.)
W. Use: The sharing, employment, application, utilization, examination or
analysis of PHI within an entity that maintains the PHI.
X. Workforce: Means employees, volunteers, trainees, and other persons whose
conduct, in the performance of work for a UH Covered Component or
Business Associate, is under the direct control of such UH Covered
Component or Business Associate, whether or not they are paid by the UH
Covered Component, the University, or Business Associate.
III. Executive Policy
A. Policy Statement and Designation of UH Covered Components
The University is Hawai‘i’s statewide higher education system and only public
university. The University is a body corporate as provided in Article X, Section 5 of the
Hawai‘i State Constitution. Pursuant to that authority and as allowed by HIPAA, the
University designates itself as a Hybrid Entity separate from the State of Hawai‘i
Executive, Legislative and Judicial branches.
The University is committed to complying with HIPAA. The University is a
single legal entity comprised of separate campuses, schools, departments, entities,
EP 2.217
Page 6 of 25
units and subunits (collectively referred to as “Units”). Some Units provide Covered
Functions as defined in HIPAA and have been designated by the University as “UH
Covered Components” and other Units perform non-covered functions under HIPAA.
Accordingly, the University has designated itself as a Hybrid Entity in accordance with
the applicable HIPAA regulations. A Hybrid Entity may exclude from its Covered
Entity status the following non-covered functions: (1) non-health care components of
the organization, e.g., the University’s academic programs, and/or (2) health care
components of the organization that do not engage in electronic transactions, e.g., a
clinic that provides health care services but does not bill for its services. All UH
Covered Components must comply with HIPAA. Furthermore, to the extent that any
University Unit is required to enter into a BAA and/or Subcontractor Agreement, as
defined in HIPAA, such Unit will also be subject to HIPAA and designated as a UH
Covered Component. The University may also designate other University Units as UH
Covered Components to the extent that they perform a function and provide services for
a designated UH Covered Component, but are not themselves providing treatment,
payment or health care operations, and are designated as Business Associates of a
designated UH Covered Component.
University Units that are designated as UH Covered Components are listed on
the University’s HIPAA Policy website: http://www.hawaii.edu/infosec/hipaa
University Units that collect, use, transmit, and/or store IIHI but are not
designated as UH Covered Components are still required to: (1) protect IIHI in
accordance with applicable HIPAA privacy and security policies and (2) comply with the
operational procedures set forth herein.
B. General Requirements and Practices
1. The designated UH Covered Component may not share PHI with the non-
covered Units of the University unless specifically allowed by HIPAA and
this HIPAA Policy. Each UH Covered Component shall comply with
HIPAA and require its employees, students, volunteers, consultants, and
contractors to comply with HIPAA and this HIPAA Policy. A UH Covered
Component may not modify or delete any portion of this HIPAA Policy.
2. Each UH Covered Component has performed a risk assessment as
required by HIPAA that shows compliance with HIPAA and this HIPAA
Policy.
3. Each UH Covered Component must designate a Unit HIPAA Coordinator
to assist the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) in carrying
out this HIPAA Policy and all University policies and procedures related to
the privacy and security of PHI and ePHI under HIPAA.
EP 2.217
Page 7 of 25
4. The appropriate Unit employees, students and volunteers of each
designated UH Covered Component have satisfactorily completed training
required by HIPAA and any updates to training as required by HIPAA.
5. Each UH Covered Component has a BAA with another internal University
Unit or an entity outside the University to share PHI or a Limited Data Set.
6. Each UH Covered Component that provides a Limited Data Set pursuant
to HIPAA to another University Unit or an entity outside the University has
a current Data Use Agreement and BAA with such University Unit or
outside entity that receives the Limited Data Set, and such use has been
approved by the University’s Institutional Review Board (“IRB”).
7. Each UH Covered Component provides and posts a Notice of Privacy
Practices as required by HIPAA. (A standard University Notice of Privacy
Practices template is attached hereto as Attachment 2.)
C. Privacy Policies and Procedures
1. Disclosure only with consent. A UH Covered Component may not use or
disclose PHI without the consent of the individual, except disclosures for
treatment, payment, or health care operations, and for certain incidental or
limited uses in compliance with HIPAA. 45 CFR § 164.502 and 164.506.
2. Disclosure required to individual and DHHS. A UH Covered Component is
required to disclose PHI to an individual when requested (45 CFR §
164.524 or §164.528) and when required by the Secretary of the
Department of Health and Human Services (“DHHS”) to investigate or
determine the UH Covered Component’s compliance with HIPAA.
3. Disclosure to UH Covered Component. When using or disclosing PHI or
when requesting PHI from another UH Covered Component, the UH
Covered Component must make reasonable efforts to limit PHI use or
disclosure to the Minimum Necessary to accomplish the intended purpose
of the use, disclosure, or request except as otherwise provided by HIPAA.
4. Disclosure to Business Associate. A UH Covered Component may
disclose PHI to a business associate and may allow a business associate
to create, receive, maintain, or transmit PHI on its behalf, if the UH
Covered Component obtains assurances that the business associate will
appropriately safeguard the information. Such assurances must be
documented through a BAA that complies with HIPAA. (Standard
University BAAs are attached hereto as Attachments 3-A (Unit is the
Covered Entity) and 3-B (Unit is the Business Associate).)
5. Disclosure pursuant to valid authorization. When a UH Covered
Component obtains or receives a valid authorization, use and disclosure
of any PHI under such authorization must be consistent with such
EP 2.217
Page 8 of 25
authorization.
6. Disclosure for marketing purposes. The UH Covered Component must
obtain authorization for any use or disclosure of PHI for “marketing”
purposes, unless it is face-to-face communication between the UH
Covered Component and the individual, or a promotional gift of nominal
value provided by the UH Covered Component. Marketing is
communication about a product or service which encourages recipients of
the communication to purchase or use the product or service, unless the
communication is made:
a. to provide refill reminders or otherwise communicate about a drug or
biologic that is currently being prescribed for the individual, only if the
financial remuneration received by the UH Covered Component in
exchange for making the communication is reasonable in relation to
the UH Covered Component’s costs of making the communication; or
b. for the following purposes except where the UH Covered Component
receives financial remuneration in exchange for the communication:
1) to describe a health–related product or service (or payment for
such product or service) that is provided by, or included in a plan of
benefits of, the covered entity making the communication (including
communications about the entities participating in a health care
provider network or health plan network; replacement of, or
enhancements to, a health plan; and health related products or
services available only to a health plan enrollee that add value to,
but are not part of, a plan of benefits);
2) for treatment of the individual, including case management or care
coordination, or to direct or recommend alternative treatments,
therapies, health care providers, or settings of care to the
individual; or
3) for case management or care coordination, contacting of individuals
with information about treatment alternatives and related functions
to the extent that these activities do not fall within the definition of
treatment.
7. Disclosure of psychotherapy notes. The UH Covered Component must
obtain prior written authorization from the patient for any disclosure of
psychotherapy notes for any reason (with limited exceptions).
a. Psychotherapy notes are notes recorded by a provider who is a mental
health professional documenting or analyzing the contents of
conversation during a private counseling session or a group, joint, or
family counseling session and that are separated from the rest of the
individual’s medical record. Psychotherapy notes exclude medication
EP 2.217
Page 9 of 25
prescription and monitoring, counseling session start and stop times,
the modalities and frequencies of treatment furnished, results of clinical
tests, and any summary of the following items: diagnosis, functional
status, the treatment plan, symptoms, prognosis, and progress to date
b. The UH Covered Component should always consult the applicable
regulations for specific guidance on protecting psychotherapy notes.
Any questions about compliance should be directed to the UH Covered
Component’s Unit HIPAA Coordinator, or the UH System HIPAA
Privacy and Security Officer(s).
8. Disclosure relating to minors. While HIPAA uses the terms “emancipated
minor” and “unemancipated minor,” HIPAA defers to state law regarding
the disclosure of PHI relating to a minor. Accordingly, this paragraph
III.C.8 is based on HIPAA and applicable State law. The UH Covered
Component should always consult the applicable laws and regulations for
specific guidance on disclosure relating to minors. Any questions about
compliance should be directed to the UH Covered Component’s Unit
HIPAA Coordinator, or the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s).
a. Relevant definitions.
1) For purposes of this policy, a “minor” is generally any person under
the age of 18.
2) “Emancipated Minor” is a minor (under 18) who is to be treated as
an adult for purposes of this policy. Under this policy, an
emancipated minor is
(1) a minor who has been married and is thus considered to have
reached the age of majority (18); or
(2) a minor who is totally self-supporting.
(This definition of Emancipated Minor incorporates both HIPAA and
applicable state law.)
3) “Personal Representative” is a person with authority to act for the
Emancipated Minor in making decisions related to health care. A
Personal Representative has the same powers as the Emancipated
Minor to the extent allowed under applicable state law.
4) A “minor without support,” is a person who is at least 14 but less
than 18 years of age, who is not under the care, supervision, or
control of a parent, custodian or legal guardian. Minors without
support may consent to primary medical treatment and services
under certain circumstances. A minor without support who receives
services is deemed to have legal capacity to consent to such
treatment and such consent is binding as if the minor without
support reached the age of majority. Because these provisions
deem a minor without support to have reached the age of majority,
EP 2.217
Page 10 of 25
such a minor qualifies under HIPAA as the only person who can
sign an Authorization for release of PHI.
5) An “unemancipated minor” is a person under 18 years of age who
is not an Emancipated Minor as defined above.
b. Disclosure to a minor’s parent, guardian, or person acting in lieu of a
parent, i.e., Personal Representative, and Authorization by Personal
Representative.
1) A licensed health care professional may release PHI to a parent,
guardian or person acting in lieu of a parent if (a) such release is
allowed by state law and (b) approved by a licensed health care
professional, in the exercise of professional judgment. See 45 CFR
164.502(g)(3)(ii)(A)-(C).
2) In situations where the parent, guardian or person acting in lieu of a
parent of an unemancipated minor has the authority to act on
behalf of the minor as the minor’s Personal Representative, and an
Authorization to use or disclose the minor’s PHI is required, the
Authorization may be signed by the minor’s Personal
Representative.
c. Disclosure requiring Authorization by the minor. If the minor has the
authority to act on his/her own behalf in receiving health care
services, e.g., an Emancipated Minor or a “minor without support”,
then the minor must sign his/her own Authorization and must
authorize disclosure of the minor’s PHI.
d. Disclosure (at the discretion of treating physician) requiring
consultation with the minor (ages 14 – 17).
1) Public and private hospitals, or public and private clinics or
physicians licensed to practice medicine, at the discretion of the
treating physician (excluding other care providers who are not
physicians, e.g., psychologists, advanced practice nurses, etc.),
may inform the spouse, parent, custodian, or guardian of any minor
patient (ages 14 – 17) of the provision of medical care and services
(including the diagnosis, examination, and administration of
medication in the treatment of venereal diseases, pregnancy, and
family planning services, but excluding surgery or any treatment to
induce abortion) to such minor patient or disclose any information
pertaining to such care and services after consulting with such
minor patient to whom such medical care and services have been
provided. If the minor patient is not diagnosed as being pregnant or
afflicted with venereal disease, the treating physician may disclose
such information as well as the application for diagnosis, at the
discretion of the treating physician after consulting with such minor
patient.
2) Written authorization is not required for such a disclosure since only
consultation is required. If the minor (ages 14 – 17) is diagnosed as
EP 2.217
Page 11 of 25
pregnant or afflicted with venereal disease, the treating physician
probably cannot disclose such information to the parents or
guardians without permission from such minor
9. Disclosure requiring advance notice and opportunity to agree or object. A
UH Covered Component may use or disclose PHI, provided that the
individual is informed in advance and has the opportunity to agree to or
prohibit or restrict the use or disclosure in accordance with applicable
HIPAA regulations (see 45 CFR § 164.510). The UH Covered Component
may verbally inform the individual of and obtain the individual's verbal
agreement or objection to a use or disclosure permitted by the HIPAA
regulations. If the individual is not present, or the opportunity to agree or
object to the use or disclosure cannot practicably be provided because of
the individual's incapacity or an emergency circumstance, the UH Covered
Component may, in the exercise of professional judgment, determine
whether the disclosure is in the best interests of the individual and, if so,
disclose only the PHI that is directly relevant to the individual's care or
payment or that is needed for notification purposes. A UH Covered
Component may use professional judgment and its experience with
common practice to make reasonable inferences of the individual's best
interest in allowing another person to act on behalf of the individual to pick
up filled prescriptions, medical supplies, X-rays, or other similar forms of
PHI.
10. Disclosure when authorization or opportunity to agree or object not
required.
a. A UH Covered Component may use or disclose PHI to the extent that
such use or disclosure is required by law and the use or disclosure
complies with and is limited to the relevant requirements of such law.
b. A UH Covered Component may use or disclose PHI for the public
health activities and purposes as provided in relevant HIPAA
regulations (see 45 CFR § 164.512).
c. A UH Covered Component may disclose PHI to a health oversight
agency for oversight activities authorized by law, including audits;
civil, administrative, or criminal investigations; inspections; licensure
or disciplinary actions; civil, administrative, or criminal proceedings or
actions; or other activities necessary for appropriate oversight.
d. A UH Covered Component may disclose PHI in the course of any
judicial or administrative proceeding: (1) in response to an order of a
court or administrative tribunal, provided that only the PHI expressly
authorized is disclosed, or (2) in response to a subpoena, discovery
request or other lawful process.
e. A UH Covered Component may disclose PHI for a law enforcement
purpose to a law enforcement official if: (1) required by law or (2) in
EP 2.217
Page 12 of 25
compliance with court proceedings or administrative requests if
information sought is relevant to a legitimate law enforcement inquiry,
and de-identified information could not reasonably be used.
11. Disclosure to determine identity or cause of death. A UH Covered
Component may disclose PHI to a coroner or medical examiner for the
purpose of identifying a deceased person, determining a cause of death,
or other duties as authorized by law.
12. Disclosure for research purposes. A UH Covered Component may use or
disclose PHI for research, regardless of the source of funding of the
research, provided that:
a. The UH Covered Component obtains documentation that an alteration
to or waiver of the individual authorization for use or disclosure of PHI
has been approved by a University IRB.
b. The UH Covered Component obtains from the researcher
representations that use or disclosure is solely to review PHI to
prepare or advance research, and no PHI is removed from the UH
Covered Component.
c. A brief description of the PHI has been deemed to be necessary by the
University IRB.
d. A statement that the alteration or waiver of authorization has been
reviewed and approved, and signed by the chair or other member
(designated by the chair) of the University IRB.
13. Disclosure to prevent/lessen imminent threat of harm. A UH Covered
Component may, consistent with applicable law and standards of ethical
conduct, use or disclose PHI, if it believes that the use or disclosure is
necessary to prevent or lessen a serious and imminent threat to the health
or safety of a person or the public, or necessary to law enforcement
authorities to identify or apprehend an individual.
14. Disclosure for workers compensation purposes. A UH Covered
Component may disclose PHI as authorized by and to the extent
necessary to comply with laws relating to workers’ compensation or other
similar programs that provide benefit for work-related injuries or illness.
15. Disclosure of de-identified data. Heath information is not IIHI if (1) it does
not identify an individual; and (2) there is no reasonable basis to believe
that the information can be used to identify an individual. Data which lack
these elements are excluded from the HIPAA regulations governing PHI
use. Such de-identified data must have the following identifiers removed:
a. Names.
b. All geographic subdivisions smaller than a State, including street
address, city, county, precinct, zip code, and their equivalent
geocodes, except for the initial three digits of a zip code if, according to
EP 2.217
Page 13 of 25
the current publicly available data from the Bureau of the Census: (1)
the geographic unit formed by combining all zip codes with the same
three initial digits contains more than 20,000 people and (2) the initial
three digits of a zip code for all such geographic units containing
20,000 or fewer people is changed to 000.
c. All elements of dates (except year) for dates directly related to an
individual, including birth date, admission date, discharge date, date of
death; and all ages over 89 and all elements of dates (including year)
indicative of such age, except that such ages and elements may be
aggregated into a single category of age 90 or older.
d. Telephone numbers;
e. Fax numbers;
f. Electronic mail addresses;
g. Social security numbers;
h. Medical record numbers;
i. Health plan beneficiary numbers;
j. Account numbers;
k. Certificate/license numbers;
l. Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate numbers;
m. Device identifiers and serial numbers;
n. Web Universal Resource Locators (“URLs”);
o. Internet Protocol (“IP”) address numbers;
p. Biometric identifiers, including finger and voice prints;
q. Full face photographic images and any comparable images; and
r. Any other unique identifying number, characteristic or code.
16. Disclosure of Limited Data Set. A UH Covered Component may use or
disclose a Limited Data Set if the UH Covered Component enters into a
Data Use Agreement with the Limited Data Set recipient and a BAA.
a. A Limited Data Set is PHI that excludes the following direct identifiers:
1) Names;
2) Postal address information, other than town or city, State, and zip
code;
3) Telephone numbers;
4) Fax numbers;
5) Electronic mail addresses;
6) Social security numbers;
7) Medical record numbers;
8) Health plan beneficiary numbers;
9) Account numbers;
10) Certificate/license numbers;
11) Vehicle identifiers and serial numbers, including license plate
numbers;
12) Device identifiers and serial numbers;
EP 2.217
Page 14 of 25
13) Web URLs;
14) IP address numbers;
15) Biometric identifiers, including finger and voice prints; and
16) Full face photographic images and any comparable images.
b. A Limited Data Set may only be disclosed for the purposes of
research, public health or health care operations.
c. A Data Use Agreement pursuant to this section must meet the
requirements of 45 CFR § 164.514(e) and be approved by the
University IRB.
17. Disclosure consent requires prior notice of privacy practices. An individual
has a right to adequate notice of the uses and disclosures of PHI that may
be made by the UH Covered Component, and of the individual’s rights and
the UH Covered Component’s legal duties with respect to PHI (exceptions
include group health plans and inmates).
a. The UH Covered Component must provide a notice that is written in
plain language and that contains the following required elements:
1) The notice must contain the following statement as a header or
otherwise prominently displayed: “THIS NOTICE DESCRIBES HOW
MEDICAL INFORMATION ABOUT YOU MAY BE USED AND
DISCLOSED AND HOW YOU CAN GET ACCESS TO THIS
INFORMATION. PLEASE REVIEW IT CAREFULLY.”
2) Uses and disclosures;
3) Separate statements for certain uses or disclosures;
4) Individual rights;
5) UH Covered Component’s duties;
6) Complaints;
7) Contact; and
8) Effective date.
b. A UH Covered Component must revise and distribute its notice
whenever there is a material change to the uses or disclosures,
individual’s rights, the UH Covered Component’s legal duties, or other
privacy practices as required by law.
c. A UH Covered Component must make the required notice available on
request to any person and to individuals as specified.
d. Requirements for electronic notice: A UH Covered Component that
maintains a website must make the notice prominently available on its
website. A UH Covered Component may provide notice via email if the
individual has agreed to such notice and other requirements of this
section are met.
EP 2.217
Page 15 of 25
e. A UH Covered Component must document compliance with the notice
requirements, by retaining copies of the notices issued by the UH
Covered Component and, if applicable, any written acknowledgements
of receipt of the notice or documentation of good faith efforts to obtain
such written acknowledgement.
f. A standard University Notice of Privacy Practices template is attached
hereto as Attachment 2.
18. Disclosure by Unit which is a federally assisted drug abuse program or a
federally assisted alcohol abuse program.
a. Generally, with certain limited exceptions, the written consent of the
individual is required before PHI identifying a patient as an alcohol or
drug abuser either directly, by reference to other publicly available
information, or through verification of such an identification by another
person, before such PHI can be released to third parties. Examples of
such exceptions may include but are not limited to:
(1) Veterans’ Administration.
(2) Armed Forces.
(3) Communication within a program or between a program and an
entity having direct administrative control over that program.
(4) Qualified Service Organizations. (42 CFR § 2.11)
(5) Crimes on program premises or against program personnel.
(6) Reports of suspected child abuse and neglect.
b. This paragraph III.C.18 is not part of HIPAA; rather, it is based on 42
CFR Part 2, Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient
Records. 42 CFR Part 2. The UH Covered Component should always
consult the applicable regulations for specific guidance on protecting
drug and alcohol abuse records. Any questions about compliance
should be directed to the UH Covered Component’s Unit HIPAA
Coordinator, or the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s).
19. Rights to request privacy protection for PHI. A UH Covered Component
must permit an individual the right to request that the UH Covered
Component restrict use or disclosure of PHI about the individual to carry
out treatment, payment, or health care operations and restrictions related
to family members, friends, and others listed in the HIPAA regulations.
a. A UH Covered Component is not required to agree to a restriction
except as provided below in Paragraph III.C.19.e .
b. In general, if there is a restriction, the UH Covered Component may
not use or disclose PHI in violation of such restriction, except in case of
an emergency.
EP 2.217
Page 16 of 25
c. If restricted PHI is disclosed to a health care provider for emergency
treatment, the UH Covered Component must request that such health
care provider not further use or disclose the information.
d. A UH Covered Component may terminate a restriction if the individual
agrees to it, or the UH Covered Component informs the individual of
the termination.
e. A UH Covered Component must agree to the request of an individual
to restrict disclosure of PHI about the individual to a health plan if: (1)
the disclosure is for the purpose of carrying out payment or health care
operations and is not otherwise required by law; and (2) the PHI
pertains solely to a health care item or service for which the individual
or person other than the health plan on behalf of the individual, has
paid the covered entity in full.
20. Access of individuals to PHI.
a. In general, an individual has a right of access to inspect and obtain a
copy of the individual’s PHI in a designated record set for as long as
the PHI is maintained in the record set.
b. A UH Covered Component may also deny an individual access without
providing the individual an opportunity for review, in certain
circumstances.
c. In general, a UH Covered Component has 30 calendar days to
respond to a request if the PHI is on site and 60 calendar days
otherwise. Delays will need to be justified in accordance with HIPAA.
d. A UH Covered Component must document the designated record sets
that are subject to access by individuals, as well as designate a person
or office responsible for receiving and processing requests.
21. Amendment of PHI. An individual has the right to have a UH Covered
Component amend PHI or a record about the individual in a designated
record set for as long as the PHI is maintained in the designated record
set with exceptions as provided under HIPAA.
22. Accounting of disclosures of PHI. An individual has a right to receive an
accounting of disclosures of PHI made by a UH Covered Component in
the six years prior to the date on which the accounting is requested, with a
few exceptions as provided in HIPAA.
23. Administrative requirements. Any and all local operating policies and
procedures established by the UH Covered Component must be
consistent with this System-wide HIPAA Policy and HIPAA.
a. A UH Covered Component must designate a privacy official (e.g., Unit
HIPAA Coordinator) who is responsible for the development and
implementation of the local operating policies and procedures of the
UH Covered Component that are consistent with this System-wide
EP 2.217
Page 17 of 25
HIPAA Policy and HIPAA, as well as a contact person/office who is
responsible for receiving complaints.
b. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must train all members of its
workforce on the policies and procedures with respect to PHI, as
necessary and appropriate for the members of the workforce to carry
out their functions within the UH Covered Component. Training must
be documented.
c. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must have in place appropriate
administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect the
privacy of PHI. (See safeguards specified in paragraph III.D herein.)
d. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must provide a process for
individuals to make complaints and complaints must be documented.
e. Subject to consultation with and review and approval by the UH
System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH Covered
Component must have and apply appropriate sanctions against
members of its workforce who fail to comply with the privacy policies
and procedures, and must document such sanctions. Sanctions are to
be conducted in accordance with appropriate University policies and
procedures and applicable collective bargaining agreements.
f. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must mitigate any harmful effects
caused by the inappropriate disclosure of PHI.
g. A UH Covered Component must refrain from intimidation or retaliation
against an individual for the exercise of an established individual right.
h. A UH Covered Component may not require individuals to waive their
rights under the HIPAA regulations as a condition of the provision of
treatment, payment, and enrollment in a health plan, or eligibility for
benefits.
i. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must implement policies and
procedures with respect to PHI that are designed to comply with the
standards, implementation specifications, or other requirements, and
that are consistent with this System-wide HIPAA Policy and HIPAA.
Revisions must also be made to policies and procedures as necessary
to comply with changes in law.
j. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must maintain policies and
procedures in written or electronic form; if a communication is required
to be in writing, maintain such writing, or an electronic copy, as
documentation; and if an action, activity, or designation is required to
EP 2.217
Page 18 of 25
be documented, maintain a written or electronic record of such action,
activity, or designation.
D. Security Policies and Procedures
In addition to complying with the HIPAA Security Rule, the UH Covered
Component must also comply with the University’s Executive Policy EP 2.214, as
amended. If the security provisions of this HIPAA Policy conflict with another University
policy or procedure, the higher level of security protection must be followed by the UH
Covered Component.
1. UH Covered Component mandatory security requirements. UH Covered
Component must:
a. Ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of all its PHI;
b. Protect against any reasonably anticipated threats or hazards to the
security or integrity of the PHI, including ePHI;
c. Protect against any reasonably anticipated uses or disclosures of PHI
that are not permitted or required;
d. Ensure HIPAA compliance by its workforce.
2. HIPAA Security Rule specifications. Specifications in the HIPAA Security
Rule are either “Required” or “Addressable”. Required specifications must
be implemented and addressable specifications must be assessed and
implemented as specified if deemed reasonable and appropriate to the UH
Covered Component.
3. Administrative safeguards. The following are required of all UH Covered
Components and apply to employees, students and volunteers in the UH
Covered Component. Any and all local operating policies and procedures
established by the UH Covered Component must be consistent with this
System-wide HIPAA Policy and HIPAA.
a. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), implement policies and procedures to prevent, detect,
contain and correct security violations. This includes: risk analysis, risk
management, sanction policy, and information system activity review
(see 45 CFR § 164.308(a)(1)(ii)(A)-(D)). Sanctions are to be conducted
in accordance with appropriate University policies and procedures and
applicable collective bargaining agreements.
b. Identify the security official (e.g., Unit HIPAA Coordinator) who is
responsible for the development and implementation of the policies
and procedures required by this HIPAA Policy and the HIPAA Security
Rule.
c. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), implement policies and procedures to ensure that only
EP 2.217
Page 19 of 25
appropriate members of its workforce including students and
volunteers have access to the PHI.
d. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), implement policies and procedures for authorized access to
PHI.
e. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), implement a security awareness training program for all
members of its workforce (including management, students and
volunteers).
f. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), implement policies and procedures to address security
incidents.
g. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), establish (and implement as needed) policies and
procedures for responding to an emergency or other occurrence, e.g.,
fire, vandalism, system failure, and natural disaster, that damages
systems that contain PHI.
h. Perform periodic technical and non-technical evaluations to ensure that
standards continue to be met in response to operational and
environmental changes affecting the security of PHI.
4. Physical safeguards. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA
Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must:
a. Implement policies and procedures to limit physical access to its
electronic information systems and the facilities in which they are
housed, while ensuring that properly authorized access is allowed.
b. Implement policies and procedures that specify the proper functions to
be performed, manner in which functions are to be performed, and
physical attributes of the surroundings of a specific
workstation/workstations that can access PHI.
c. Implement physical safeguards for all workstations that access PHI to
restrict access to authorized users.
d. Implement policies and procedures that govern the receipt and
removal of hardware and electronic media that contain ePHI into, out
of and within the facility.
5. Technical safeguards. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA
Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH Covered Component must:
a. Implement technical policies and procedures for electronic information
systems that maintain ePHI to allow access only to those persons or
software programs that have been granted access rights.
EP 2.217
Page 20 of 25
b. Implement hardware, software, and/or procedural mechanisms that
record and examine activity in information systems that contain or use
ePHI.
c. Implement policies and procedures to protect PHI from improper
alteration or destruction.
d. Implement procedures to verify that a person or entity seeking access
to PHI is the one claimed.
e. Implement technical security measures to guard against unauthorized
access to ePHI that is being transmitted over an electronic
communications network.
6. Policies and procedures and documentation requirements. With the
assistance of the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH
Covered Component must:
a. Implement reasonable and appropriate policies and procedures to
comply with the standards, implementation specifications, or other
requirements. This standard is not to be construed to permit or excuse
action that violates them.
b. Maintain policies and procedures implemented in written (may be
electronic) form, and if an action, activity, or assessment is required to
be documented, maintain a written (may be electronic) record of it.
c. Retain the documentation required by paragraph (b) of this section for 6
years from the date of its creation or the date when it last was in effect,
whichever is later.
7. Notification in the Case of Breach of Unsecured PHI.
a. Notification to individuals. With the assistance of the UH System
HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH Covered Component
shall, following the discovery of a Breach (as defined by HIPAA) of
unsecured PHI, notify each individual whose unsecured PHI has been,
or is reasonably believed by the UH Covered Component to have
been, accessed, acquired, used, or disclosed as a result of such
Breach without unreasonable delay and in no case later than 60
calendar days following the discovery of such Breach. A Breach shall
be treated as discovered by a UH Covered Component as of the first
day on which such Breach is known to the UH Covered Component,
or, by exercising reasonable diligence would have been known to the
UH Covered Component. A UH Covered Component shall be deemed
to have knowledge of a Breach if such Breach is known, or by
exercising reasonable diligence would have been known, to any
person, other than the person committing the Breach, who is a
workforce member or agent of the UH Covered Component
(determined in accordance with the federal common law of agency).
EP 2.217
Page 21 of 25
b. Notification to others. With the assistance of the UH System HIPAA
Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH Covered Component shall also
notify prominent local media outlets if the Breach involves more than
500 residents of the State no later than 60 calendar days after
discovery of the Breach. (Shorter time frames may apply as required
by law.)
c. Notification to the DHHS Secretary. With the assistance of the UH
System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s), a UH Covered
Component shall notify the DHHS Secretary of Breaches on an annual
basis, in a manner specified on the DHHS Web site, and via a report
due to the DHHS Secretary no later than 60 calendar days after the
end of the calendar year in which the Breaches are discovered if less
than 500 individuals are involved. If 500 or more individuals are
involved, the UH Covered Component shall notify the DHHS Secretary
in the manner specified on the DHHS Web site, which presently
requires notice without unreasonable delay and in no case later than
60 days following a Breach. (Shorter time frames may apply as
required by law.)
d. Notification by a Business Associate. A Business Associate shall
notify a UH Covered Component of a Breach within five (5) business
days that the Business Associate discovered a Breach occurred or by
exercising reasonable diligence would have been known to the UH
Covered Component. A UH Covered Component shall be deemed to
have knowledge of a Breach if such Breach is known, or by exercising
reasonable diligence would have been known, to any person, other
than the person committing the Breach, who is a workforce member or
agent of the Business Associate (determined in accordance with the
federal common law of agency).
e. Notification to and coordination with UH System HIPAA Privacy and
Security Officer(s). In the event of a Breach of PHI, the UH Covered
Component must immediately notify the UH System HIPAA Privacy
and Security Officer(s); cooperate with the System HIPAA Privacy and
Security Officer(s), Chief Information Security Officer, and others in the
course of the investigation of the Breach; and in coordination with the
System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s), initiate corrective action
plans or other remediation or mitigation to prevent recurrence of the
Breach or similar Breaches.
E. University System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) and Unit
HIPAA Coordinators
1. Office of the Vice President for Information Technology and Chief
Information Officer (OVPIT). The University has designated staff in OVPIT
to serve as the University System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s)
EP 2.217
Page 22 of 25
(“UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s)”).
2. UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s). The UH System
HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) is delegated responsibility for the
development, implementation, and maintenance of this HIPAA Policy, in
consultation with the University’s Chief Information Officer and Chief
Information Security Officer, and including all University privacy and
security policies and procedures relating to HIPAA.
a. Responsibilities relating to the HIPAA Privacy Rule. The UH System
HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) will be responsible for
overseeing and managing the implementation of the HIPAA Privacy
Rule. The UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) will assist
the Unit HIPAA Coordinators in carrying out this HIPAA Policy and any
University policies and procedures related to the HIPAA Privacy Rule,
including but not limited to the following:
1) Maintaining ongoing communication with all Unit HIPAA
Coordinators;
2) Coordinating training programs for the designated UH Covered
Components (employees, students and volunteers) in cooperation
with the Unit HIPAA Coordinators;
3) Maintaining ongoing communications with the IRB regarding
research use of PHI and Limited Data Sets;
4) Responding to complaints regarding University policies, procedures
and practices related to the privacy of health information; and
5) Responding, or referring, to the appropriate UH Covered
Component, requests by individuals for access and amendment, an
accounting of disclosures, or requested restrictions to the use and
disclosure of PHI.
6) Approving and executing all BAAs, Data Use Agreements, and Data
Sharing Agreements.
b. Responsibilities relating to the HIPAA Security Rule. The UH System
HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) will be responsible for
overseeing and managing the implementation of the HIPAA Security
Rule, and will assist the Unit HIPAA Coordinators in carrying out this
HIPAA Policy and any University policies and procedures related to the
HIPAA Security Rule (including the security of PHI under HIPAA),
including but not limited to the following:
1) Maintaining ongoing communication with the Unit HIPAA
Coordinators;
2) Guiding and assisting with the development and implementation of
ongoing security awareness and training programs for the
employees, students, and volunteers of each UH Covered
Component;
3) Monitoring the use of security measures to protect PHI; and
EP 2.217
Page 23 of 25
4) Assisting in revising this HIPAA Policy and any University policy or
procedure related to the privacy and security of PHI, as required to
comply with changes in any applicable law, as well as documenting
any change to any policy or procedure related to the privacy and
security of PHI.
3. Unit HIPAA Coordinators. Each designated UH Covered Component
must designate a Unit HIPAA Coordinator to assist the UH System HIPAA
Privacy and Security Officer in carrying out this HIPAA Policy and all
University policies and procedures related to the privacy and security of
PHI and ePHI under HIPAA.
Responsibilities of the Unit HIPAA Coordinators include, but are not
limited to:
a. Performing the role of liaison and maintain ongoing communication
with the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s);
b. Developing and maintaining procedures consistent with this HIPAA
Policy for protection of PHI and ePHI in the University Unit, which is
considered a UH Covered Component;
c. Maintaining and updating, as needed, procedures consistent with the
policy for protection of PHI and ePHI in the University Unit;
d. Informing employees, volunteers, students, and as needed,
consultants and others, about this HIPAA Policy and all University
policies and procedures relating to HIPAA through various methods
including but not limited to staff meetings, in person meetings,
seminars, orientation meetings and phone or web based meetings;
e. Monitoring the process of identifying and training new employees,
volunteers and students within the University Unit who require access
to PHI;
f. Monitoring compliance with the policies and procedures of the
University Unit relating to HIPAA;
g. Reporting directly to the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), any and all violations that result in an impermissible use or
disclosure of PHI and/or ePHI;
h. Reporting directly to the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), any and all privacy violations under HIPAA;
i. Reporting directly to the UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security
Officer(s), any and all security violations under HIPAA;
j. Ensuring continued compliance with HIPAA, this HIPAA Policy, and all
University policies and procedures relating to HIPAA; and
k. Reviewing all BAAs, Data Use and Data Sharing Agreements prior to
execution by the Project Principal Investigator or Program Lead.
4. The responsible Unit HIPAA Coordinators for the UH Covered
Components are listed on the University HIPAA Policy website:
http://www.hawaii.edu/infosec/hipaa
EP 2.217
Page 24 of 25
F. Authority for Signing of Business Associate Agreements, Data Use
Agreements, and Data Sharing Agreements
All BAAs, Data Use Agreements, and/or Data Sharing Agreements must be
reviewed by the relevant Unit HIPAA Coordinator and the UH System HIPAA Privacy
and Security Officer(s) in consultation with the University Office of the General Counsel
as needed prior to execution.
With respect to BAAs, such prior review and consultation are not required if the
UH Covered Component uses a standard University BAA template “as is” with no
changes. See Attachments 3-A and 3-B.
Every BAA, Data Use Agreement, and Data Sharing Agreement must include the
following approvals/signatures:
1) Project Principal Investigator or Program Lead;
2) UH System HIPAA Privacy and Security Officer(s) (or as otherwise delegated
by OVPIT); and
3) Campus Chancellor (or designee) for campus projects, or appropriate System
Vice President (or designee) for System projects.
IV. Delegation of Authority
There is no policy-specific delegation of authority.
V. Contact Information
Office of the Vice President for Information Technology & Chief Information Officer
hipaa@hawaii.edu
(808) 956-3501
VI. References
A. Link to superseded policies: None
B. List of sources which relate to or impact the policy:
1. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, as
amended (Pub. L. 104–191, 110 Stat. 1936 (1996) and affected/amended
statutes), and implementing regulations (45 CFR Parts 160, 162 and 164)
2. The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, as amended
(Pub. L. 111–5, 123 Stat. 116 (2009) and affected/amended statutes),
specifically including the Health Information Technology for Economic and
EP 2.217
Page 25 of 25
Clinical Health Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§ 300jj et seq.; 42 U.S.C. §§
17901 et seq.).
3. 42 CFR Part 2, Confidentiality of Alcohol and Drug Abuse Patient
Records.
4. HRS §§ 327E-2; 577-1, -25; 577A-1 to -3, -26; 577D-1 to -2.
C. Link to Executive Policy EP 2.214, Security Protection and Sensitive
Information, as amended
http://www.hawaii.edu/policy/index.php?action=viewPolicy&policySection=ep&
policyChapter=2&policyNumber=214&menuView=closed
VII. Exhibits and Appendices
A. Attachment 1-A – University Authorization Template
B. Attachment 1-B –University Consent Template
C. Attachment 2 – University Notice of Privacy Practices Template
D. Attachment 3-A – University BAA Template (Unit is the Covered Entity)
E. Attachment 3-B – University BAA Template (Unit is the Business Associate)
Approved:
Signed July 10, 2017
David Lassner Date
President
