Question: Locating Your Device's MAC Address
Article Text: The Media Access Control (MAC) address is a unique 12-digit hexadecimal number assigned to the network interface (e.g. ethernet card) in your network-enabled device. Note: Your wireless will need to be enabled in order to locate your MAC address. If you are not sure how to enable wireless on your device please refer to the instructions that came with your device. Mobile OS iOS Go to the Settings app on the home screen of your iOS device. Select General, then select About. Scroll down and look for Wi-Fi Address, that is your iOS device’s MAC address. Android From the Home screen, press Settings. Select General or More option at the top of the screen. Scroll down and tap About device. Tap Status. Scroll down to view the Wi-Fi MAC address. *Note: Android 10 and iOS 14 introduced a randomized MAC address option. If your UHM wireless passthrough stops working and you have Android 10 and higher or iOS 14 and higher, you may need to change this option to use the device's MAC address. Learn how to disable this feature. Windows Windows 10 & 11 Click the Start button Type cmd in the search field. Click on Command Prompt Desktop app in the search results. At the prompt, type ipconfig /all and press Enter. The MAC address is on the Physical Address line of the window. Note: Some computers have more than one ethernet adapter and the 'ipconfig' command lists all of the network adapters on the computer. Please find the one that describes your wireless card by looking at the Description field. Also note, that the physical addresses that are listed under the 'Tunnel adapters' and/or 'Teredo Tunneling Pseudo-Interface' are not valid for Wireless Passthrough. macOS macOS 10.11 and above Go to the Apple menu and select System Preferences. Click on the Network icon. On the left side, click once on Wi-Fi to select it. On the right side, nearer to the bottom, click on the Advanced button. On the window that appears, look for Wi-Fi Address near the bottom. The Wi-Fi Address is your MAC address. Click on Cancel. Close the window by click on the red dot in the upper left corner of the window.
