Question: Connecting to the UH Wireless Networks
Article Text: Welcome to the University of Hawai'i Wireless Network homepage. Here you will find instructions on setting up your wireless adapter using the built-in software in the Windows and MacOS operating systems. Note: ITS does not support third party wireless configuration wizards due to the amount of various software applications that are available. Consult the documentation that came with your wireless card to learn how to turn this software off. General Wireless Setup Connecting to the UH Wireless Network Wireless Authentication Passthrough Wireless Visitor Internet Access (VIA) Wireless Connectivity Matrix UH Manoa Wireless Map Wireless Troubleshooting Tips General Wireless Setup What you need: A laptop or desktop computer outfitted with a wireless network adapter that is 802.11a/g/n compatible A supported operating system (Windows 10 or MacOS) A valid UH Username and password Connecting to the UH Wireless Network Please see the Wireless Connectivity Matrix below for the SSID information for your campus. You can use the instructions below, by using the relevant SSID information for your campus. Windows 10 https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1739 MacOS https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/995 Wireless Authentication Passthrough For the convenience of mobile device users who want to utilize the UH Wireless Network, as well as frequent wireless users, you can now setup a passthrough for the wireless network. Doing this will allow the device to bypass the normal wireless login process and immediately access the wireless network. (Note: Passthrough is not currently enabled for Windward CC) To setup a passthrough, go to https://www.hawaii.edu/wireless/pt. To complete the passthrough setup process, you will need: Your UH Username and password The MAC Address of your device A description of your device Passthroughs expire after 1 year, and each user is allowed a maximum of 10 passthroughs to be setup at a time. Passthroughs are registered under your UH Username, and you are responsible for the activity of these devices while they are connected to the UH Wireless Network. Wireless Visitor Internet Access (VIA) University of Hawai’i (UH) faculty and staff may request access to the UH Wireless Network for their visitors. More information about VIA can be found at https://www.hawaii.edu/via. Wireless Connectivity Matrix Campus SSID for UH login UH Username & Password Authentication Passthrough Enabled Notes UH Hilo uhhilo Y Y UH Manoa UHM Y Y UH Maui College UHMC Y Y UH West Oahu UHWO Y Y Hawaii CC HAWAIICC Y Y Hawaii CC-Palamanui HAWAIICC-P Y Y Honolulu CC HON Y Y Kapiolani CC KapCC Y Y Kauai CC KauaiCC or KauaiCC24 Y Y Leeward CC LEE Y Y Windward CC Wireless Using UH ID Y N “WCC Campus WPA2” network available with password "windward96744" LCC-Waianae LEE Y Y UH-West Hawaii UHCWH Y Y UHMC-Hana UHMC Y Y UHMC-Lahaina UHMC Y Y UHMC-Lanai UHMC Y Y UHMC-Molokai UHMC Y Y UH Manoa Wireless Map To find out which buildings have wireless coverage on the UH Manoa campus, please visit the campus map at https://www.hawaii.edu/wireless/map/. Wireless Troubleshooting Tips My wireless connection used to work, but now it doesn't My wireless connection never worked. Make sure you have a valid UH Username and password. Check that a valid Network Name (SSID) is being used (see Network Connectivity Matrix above). Check for adequate signal strength for the SSID. If your signal strength is moderate or low, try moving to a different location where the signal strength is good or excellent. If you are on the UH Manoa Campus, please check the UH Manoa wireless map to make sure the UHM wireless network is available in the area where you are trying to connect. In your device's network settings, check to see if your wireless connection is bridged with another connection. Remove the bridge if necessary. If using a computer or laptop, you could try to remove the existing wireless adapter and reinstall them. Also check for updated drivers for your wireless adapter at the manufacturer's website. If you have an external adapter for your computer or laptop, try your wireless adapter in another computer to make sure the adapter is working properly. If you have built-in wireless that came with your laptop, check to see if there is an external switch to enable or disable your wireless connection. I can connect and get to the wireless authentication page, but I can't get past that page. Make sure you have a valid UH Username and Password. If you are still experiencing issues with wireless, or are at the UH-Manoa campus, please contact the ITS Help Desk: http://www.hawaii.edu/its/help-desk.
