Question: Accessing LISTSERV via the Web
Article Text: This article provides a quick tour of the list management areas of the web interface. For more information about each page, refer to the online documentation by clicking on the question mark in the top-right corner. Some common tasks have been included in the next section. Getting Started To get started, navigate to https://listserv.hawaii.edu and click on Log In. If you have already registered with UH LISTSERV, enter the email address and password you supplied when creating your account and click Log In. If this is your first time accessing UH LISTSERV or if you are already registered but have forgotten your password, click on the respective Register Password or Forgot Password link and fill in the requested information. After submitting the form, a confirmation email will be sent to the address provided. Click on the link in the email to verify your request. Then, use the instructions above to log into your account using your new credentials. Note: Your password for the LISTSERV must be a minimum of 5 non-space characters. This password is independent of your UH username password. As with all passwords, you should create one that is unique, and you should not distribute it to others. Navigating the Web Interface The Web Interface is divided into the following parts: Top Banner – This banner is diplayed at the top of every page. Clicking on the UH LISTSERV logo on the far left will take you to the start page designated within your preferences. The button to the right of the UH LISTSERV logo can be used to toggle the navigation pane. On the right side, clicking on your email address will show your account profile. Finally, the ? button in the top-right corner will bring up documentation on the current page. Navigation Pane – On the left side of the main form is the navigation pane. The navigation pane stays the same from page to page and contains links to various areas of the web interface that you have access to. These areas can be grouped into two main categories: List Management, and Subscriber Options. Resources – This section contains links to general information, user documentation, frequently asked questions, and the request form for new lists. In LISTSERV 17.0, you can choose between two modes for the web interface. Basic – Only the most common options are shown, but no tutorial text is displayed. This is the best mode for those users who are familiar with LISTSERV, but who are not experts and do not need to use the more advanced features. This is the default setting. Expert – Similarly to Basic mode, each web page is displayed with no tutorial text. However, certain pages may contain advanced options that are not available in Basic mode. Expert mode is available for users who are very familiar with LISTSERV or need access to any advanced settings. To change the mode, click on Preferences in the Navigation Pane on the left. Make sure that the General tab is selected. Then, use the drop-down menu next to Mode to make the desired selection. Finally, click on the Update button to save your choice. List Owner Management Below is a listing of list management pages accessible via the navigation pane on the left. If you are the owner of only one list, the management page for that list will be displayed. If you own more than one list, you will need to use the drop-down menu to select the list you want to modify. List Dashboard This section displays a user interface that organizes and presents information about your list(s). Additionally, you can quickly access some list configuration settings by clicking on the corresponding fields within the table. List Moderation If your list has moderation enabled, this section will display incoming messages that require approval before being forwarded out to list subscribers. List Configuration This section displays various settings for lists you own. The following are some of the items that can be configured: administrators, subscription settings, security settings, archives and logs, allowed attachments, error handling, and distribution settings. List Customization This section displays color and appearance customization options. List Reports This section allows list owners to generate reports on their lists or search for lists meeting specific criteria. Subscriber Reports This section displays the current subscribers of a list and their subscription settings. List Activity Reports This section displays reports on specific events that occured within a given time frame. Subscriber Management This section allows you to add, remove, and modify subscription settings for individual subscribers. Web Templates This section allows you to customize the LISTSERV web interface. Mail Templates This section allows you to customize automated emails sent by a list. Newsletter Templates This section allows you to create and modify HTML templates for newsletters sent via a list. LISTSERV Command This section allows you to issue text based commands to the LISTSERV processor without using your email address.
