Question: Common Tasks Using the LISTSERV Web Interface
Article Text: To add a subscription (for list owners): Under the List Management options in the navigation pane on the left, click on Subscriber Reports. Select the list you would like to manage from the drop-down menu. In the text field beneath Add Subscriber, enter the email address you would like added to the list.Click the Add Subscriber button To remove a subscription (for list owners): Under the List Management options in the navigation pane on the left, click on Subscriber Reports. Select the list you would like to manage from the drop-down menu. Click the checkbox next to each subscriber’s address to select them. If you need to search for specific subscribers, the search bar underneath the Subscribers column header can be used to filter email addresses. Once all subscribers that need to be deleted have been selected, click on Delete Subscribers at the bottom of the page. A message will appear asking if you are sure you would like to delete the selected subscribers. Press Delete to confirm. Verify that the subscribers no longer exist by searching for them. To add or delete multiple subscriptions (for list owners): Create a text (.txt) file with the subscribers you want to add to or remove from the list. The file should contain one email address, optionally followed by the subscriber's first and last name separated by a space, per line. (Ex: jdoe@hawaii.edu John Doe) Under the List Management options in the navigation pane on the left, click on Subscriber Reports. Select the list you would like to manage from the drop-down menu. Click on Bulk Operations. Select the option corresponding to the action you would like to take, click Choose File, and upload the text file you created in Step 1 using the resulting prompt. Click on the Import button to add or remove the subscriber(s). Some text in blue should appear detailing the changes made to your list. To change your list’s configuration: Under the List Management options in the navigation pane on the left, click on List Configuration. Select the list you would like to manage from the drop-down menu. Make the desired changes to your list settings and click on Update.
