Question: Setting up Dreamweaver with secure FTP (sFTP)
Article Text: Contents Notes on departmental websites under UH Hosted Website Service Creating a new website profile Managing an existing website profile Notes on departmental websites under UH Hosted Website Service This replaces Ask Us ID 697, "Transfer files with Dreamweaver through a SSH Tunnel". SSH is no longer supported under the web servers of the UH Hosted Website Service. Any departmental website will have a beginning URL such as www.hawaii.edu or manoa.hawaii.edu. Websites beginning with www2.hawaii.edu are normally associated with personal homepages. You cannot modify file permissions through Dreamweaver. You must use an secure FTP (sFTP) client such as Filezilla for PC or Mac. Your version of Dreamweaver must be MX 2004 or higher, or must have sFTP capability for the following instructions to properly work. Dreamweaver is not listed as ITS supported software. Therefore, Dreamweaver support is limited within ITS. You may also want to check the Dreamweaver FAQ on Adobe Forums for additional general support. top Creating a new website profile To set up a profile to manage your website, please follow the provided instructions. Open Dreamweaver Once Dreamweaver is displayed, go to Site >> New Site... A Site Definition window will appear. Fill in the following fields: What would you like to name your site? Enter a profile name that best describes the website Dreamweaver will manage. The name you chose should allow you to be able to distinguish it among other profile names already created or later created. What is the HTTP Address (URL) of your site? Enter the URL of the website that the profile is made for. Click the Next button. Choose Yes, I want to use a server technology. Select PHP MySQL as the server technology. Click Next. Click on the Advanced tab. Select Local Info, if not selected, from the left side panel as shown in the provided screenshot. Complete the following changes, which should result in something similar to the example above (your information will be different from that in the example): a) Local root folder Click on the folder to the right side of the text box. Locate or make the folder for which the website files are to be stored. If you are making a new folder, be sure to place the folder in an area you are able to find it (e.g. Desktop). b) Default images folder Perform the same step as the local root folder, except specifying where the images are to be stored for the website. You may choose to keep your images in a new folder, or you may choose to place your images in the same place as your web page files. It is recommended that you keep your images in a new folder to keep your files organized. c) Check the box for "Use case-sensitive link checking" The web servers under the UH Hosted Website Service are case-sensitive, meaning the website files "home.html" and "HOME.html' are different. On the Advanced tab, select Remote Info from the left hand side. Complete the following changes, which should result in something similar to the example above (your information will be different from that in the example): Access: FTP FTP host: Hostname of the server which hosts the website you are managing. Host directory: enter the directory which the website files are stored on the web server. Login: <your UH username> Password: <your password> You may choose to check Save check box if you would like Dreamweaver to keep your password. Note this field must be edited should you change your password in the future. Check Use Secure FTP, as required to access the web server. Click the Test button. If you are successfully able to access the web server, you should receive a similar message: On the Advanced tab, click on Design Notes from the left hand side. Optionally, you may choose to uncheck Maintain Design Notes. To save and exit the setup, click OK. top Managing an existing profile To manage an existing website profile, please follow the provided instructions. Open Dreamweaver Once Dreamweaver is displayed, go to Site >> Manage Sites... In the Manage Sites window, example displayed below, select the site profile you would like to modify. Click Edit... Edit the site profile as needed. To close the window saving your changes, click OK. top
