Question: Laulima: Upload & Download Multiple Files via WebDAV
Article Text: Laulima: Upload & Download Multiple Files via WebDAV WebDAV stands for "Web-based Distributed Authoring and Versioning”. WebDAV can be used to manage files (eg. upload/download) on remote web servers (eg. Laulima). The interface is similar to having an external hard drive/flash drive attached to your computer, allowing you to drag copies of multiple files to the server. For more information on WebDAV see: http://webdav.org You can use WebDAV to upload multiple files to the Resources Tool in Laulima. You can also access information on how to do this via the “Transfer Files” tab in the Resources Tool within Laulima or at the TALENT page (http://www.hawaii.edu/talent). WebDAV works differently depending on which computer operating system and version you use (eg. Windows 7, Windows 10, Mac OSX). Listed below is basic information on setting up some common operating systems to connect with Laulima via WebDAV. Microsoft Windows 8/10 Mac OSX Linux Other (Cyberduck) Microsoft Windows 10 From the Desktop, click File Explorer and make sure 'This PC' is selected in the left-hand pane. At the top of the File Explorer window, click Computer > Map Network Drive > Map network drive. Select a vacant drive letter (e.g., Z) from the Drive drop down menu. In the Folder field, type (or copy and paste) the URL for this site (shown near the top of the Transfer Files area). Click Finish. When prompted, enter your username and password and click OK. You can now drag files and folders to and from your computer and the site Resources folder. Alternate method of setting up WebDAV on Windows: If the process above yields connections errors, you may be able to utilize the WebDAV functionality to access your files using a free third-party client called Cyberduck. Microsoft Windows 11 From the Desktop, click File Explorer and make sure 'This PC' is selected in the left-hand pane. At the top of the File Explorer window, click the three dots ...> Map Network Drive. Select a vacant drive letter (e.g., Z) from the Drive drop down menu. In the Folder field, type (or copy and paste) the URL for this site (shown near the top of the Transfer Files area). Click Finish. When prompted, enter your username and password and click OK. You can now drag files and folders to and from your computer and the site Resources folder. Alternate method of setting up WebDAV on Windows: If the process above yields connections errors, you may be able to utilize the WebDAV functionality to access your files using a free third-party client called Cyberduck. Mac OSX Note: Depending upon the exact update of OS X, The Webdav support in the Macintosh Finder may well be too buggy to use. If you have problems with this approach, consider using Cyberduck. From the menu bar at the top of the screen in Finder, select Go > Connect to Server... In the Server Address dialog box, type (or copy and paste) the path (shown near the top of the Transfer Files area). Press the + button to save this path for future use. Click Connect. Type in your username and password and click Connect. The window will then show the contents of your Resources folder. You can then drag files to and from this window to copy files, or move files into different folders in Laulima, etc As noted previously, you can alternatively set up WebDAV with Cyberduck . Linux Note: Linux is not an officially supported OS by ITS Setting up WebDAV for Linux (Gnome): Go to Files > Connect to Server... In Server adress, type (or copy and paste) the URL shown near the top of the Transfer Files area. Click on Connect. Supply your password. You will now see a new drive under Files. This represents the resources in your site. It will act like any other folder on your computer. You can now drag and drop files into or out of this window and delete files by dragging them to the Trash. Setting up WebDAV for older versions of Linux (Gnome): Go to Places > Connect to Server... In Service, type select WebDav (HTTP/SSL). In Server, type (or copy and paste): laulima.hawaii.edu. In Port, type (or copy and paste): 443 In Folder, type (or copy and paste) the last part of the URL shown near the top of the Transfer Files area (the part of the url starting with "dav"). Check the option Add bookmark In Bookmark name, supply the name of the folder to create under "Network" and click Next. Click on Connect. Supply your password. You will now see a new drive under Places. This represents the resources in your site. It will act like any other folder on your computer. You can now drag and drop files into or out of this window and delete files by dragging them to the Trash. Setting up WebDAV for Linux (KDE): Open the file manager (Dolphin). On the left side, in Places, choose Network. Click on Add network folder. Check web folder (webdav) and click on Next. In Name supply the name of the folder to create under "Network" and click Next. In User supply your username. In Server, type (or copy and paste): laulima.hawaii.edu In Folder, type (or copy and paste) the last part of the URL shown near the top of the Transfer Files area (the part of the url starting with "dav"). If the URL uses HTTPS, check the option Encoded, and the port will change automatically to 443. Check the option Create an icon for this remote folder. Click on Save and connect. Supply your password. You will now see a new drive under Network inside the file manager (Dolphin). This represents the resources in your site. It will act like any other folder from your computer. You can now drag and drop files into or out of this window and delete files by dragging them to the Trash. Setting up WebDAV for Linux (console) Open a new terminal. Type in the command cadaver and the url shown near the top of the Transfer Files area (eg. cadaver https://laulima.hawaii.edu/dav/~yoursiteid) You might be asked to accept a certificate Type in your username and password Now you can download and upload documents from the command line. Type help for all avaliable commands. Cyberduck WebDAV may be implemented differently in different versions of operating systems. A WebDAV client like Cyberduck may provide a more reliable experience with WebDAV. Note that UH does not officially support the Cyberduck software. Download the Cyberduck WebDAV client. For Windows or OS X version 10.5 and later, download and install the most recent software at: http://cyberduck.io/ OS X versions before 10.5, download the Cyberduck WebDAV client at: http://update.cyberduck.io/Cyberduck-2.8.5.dmg Decompress the file and double-click on the .dmg file. (Depending on the configuration of your decompression software, the disk image may automatically mount.) A disk image with a name similar to Cyberduck-2.8.5 should now be available. Simply drag and drop the folder from the disk image to your Applications folder. Open the Cyberduck application in your Applications folder. Click the Open Connection button. In Server, copy and paste the url shown near the top of the Transfer Files area. This will autofill all needed fields. Also, you can manually introduce the requested information: Select WebDAV (HTTP/SSL) In Server, type: laulima.hawaii.edu In Port, type: 443 Click on More options, and type (or copy and paste) in Folder the last part of the URL shown near the top of the Transfer Files area (the part of the url starting with "dav"). Disable the Anonymous Login option. Type in your username and password Click on Connect. You will now see a window on your screen that represents the resources that are in your site. Simply drag and drop between this window and other folders on your computer to transfer files to and from your site's resources folder. You can save these settings for future connections: Click on Bookmark in top menu bar. Click on New bookmark option. In the pop-up window, change the nickname. Remove "laulima.hawaii.edu – WebDAV (HTTPS)" and type the name for this connection. Close this window.
