Question: Enrolling in 'Ohana online services
Article Text: Enrolling in 'Ohana online services during your grace period Pre-enroll into 'Ohana online services prior to leaving UH Enrolling in 'Ohana online services during your grace period Once the UH Identity Management System detects that you are no longer affiliated with the University of Hawaii (i.e. you are no longer an active student, staff, faculty, or department affiliate), your UH Username will be placed in a grace period. These instructions describe the steps you need to take to enroll in our 'Ohana online services during the grace period, which will preserve your UH email account, in addition to other 'Ohana online services (see Ask Us 932). Navigate to the UH Username Management site and login with your UH Username and password. Once you are logged in, you should see a Enroll in our 'Ohana online services button. Click on this button before the expiration date stated in red. Note: If the button is grayed out (not clickable), or if there is a red X next to You have setup your secret Questions and Answers, this means you need to setup two secret questions and answers before you can enroll. To do this, click on either the secret Questions and Answers link or the Change Password Reset Questions link. You should see a confirmation message that your enrollment was successful. You will receive a renewal notification via email when your enrollment is three months from expiring. Pre-enroll into 'Ohana online services prior to leaving UH At any time prior to leaving the University, you may choose to pre-enroll into 'Ohana. Doing so will automatically enroll you into 'Ohana online services once you are no longer affiliated with the University and requires no further action on your part. Please note that even if you decide to pre-enroll into 'Ohana, you will still be required to renew your 'Ohana enrollment annually (see Ask Us 932). Navigate to the UH Username Management site and log in with your UH Username and password. Click on the "How do I keep my email after I leave UH?" link under the "'Ohana Online Services" section. If you do not see this link, it means you are not eligible to pre-enroll in 'Ohana online services. Click on the "I want to keep my email address." link to pre-enroll. After clicking the link, you will notice that the text will have changed to indicate that "You have opted to keep your email address after you leave the University of Hawaii." The link will also have changed to allow you to cancel your pre-enrollment should you decide to do so in the future. You will also receive an email notification confirming your pre-enrollment.
