Question: What are the available options in Google@UH Calendar?
Article Text: To access the Google@UH Calendar options, click on the "Settings" link in the upper right corner of the calendar window, then select "Calendar settings". Be sure to click on the "Save" button to save any changes you make to these options. General Tab Language By default, Google@UH Calendar will display in English. You can change it to display in a different language by clicking on the drop down menu and selecting that language. Country By default, this is set to the United States. Click on the drop down menu if you are travelling in a different country and wish to set the calendar to a different time zone. Your current time zone By default, this is set to Hawaii Time. Click on the drop down menu to choose a different time zone. Only the time zones of the country you selected in the "Country" option will be available, unless you check the "Display all time zones" box. If you click on the "Show an additional time zone" link, an additional column with that time zone will be displayed in the Google@UH Calendar window. If you fill in the "Label" box, the top of the column showing that time zone will have that label. For example, you could have the Hawaii time zone with the label "Hawaii" and the Eastern time zone with the label "Pittsburgh". When you return to the Google@UH Calendar window, there will be two columns, one showing the time in Hawaii and one showing the equivalent Eastern time. At the top of the column will be the "Hawaii" and "Pittsburgh" labels. Date format Click on the drop down menu if you want your dates (for example, within the Edit event details box) to appear in a different format. Time format Click on the drop down menu to choose between displaying the time in standard or military time. Week starts on By default, the day on the farthest left of the weekly view will be Sunday. Click on this drop down menu to change this to a different day of the week. Working hours You can set your working hours in this section, and check the box so that when people invite you to an event outside of your working hours, they will get a warning message. Check the days of the week you are available, and set your work times in the boxes. Show weekends If you choose Yes, then Sunday and Saturday will be shown on your calendar. If you check no, only Monday through Friday will be displayed. Default view This is the view that will be displayed when you first open your calendar. You may choose between Day, Week, Month, Custom View, and Agenda. For more information about the different views, please see What are the different views in Google@UH Calendar?. Custom view If you select "Custom View" under the "Default View" option, you can then choose what your custom view will display (4 days, 3 weeks, etc) from this drop down menu. Location If you wish to use options such as the Weather, you should enter your location (city or zip code) in this box. Show weather based on my location If you select C (celsius) or F (farenheit), another line will be added to your calendar (right beneath the All day section) with icons for the weather forecast. (You may have to logout and log back in to see the weather icons.) Click on the icon for the actual weather forecast. The temperature will be displayed in celsius or farenheit, depending on what you chose in the settings. Show events you have declined If you choose yes, if someone invites you to a meeting and you decline, you will still see this meeting on your calendar. Automatically add invitations to my calendar If you select yes, all meeting invitations will be added to your calendar, and you will be reminded about them, regardless of whether or not you have responded to the invitation In other words, even if you didn't do anything at all, it will still be on your calendar and you will still be reminded about the meeting. If you select "Yes, but don't send event reminders unless I have responded "Yes" or "Maybe", all meeting invitations will be added to your calendar, but you will only be reminded about those you have accepted or stated maybe. If you select "No", meeting invitations will only be added if you respond "Yes" or "Maybe". Alternate calendar If you wish the dates for one of the available alternate calendars to display in your calendar, select it from this drop down menu. Enable keyboard shortcuts If you select "Yes", you can use the Google-programmed keyboard shortcuts in the calendar, instead of mouse clicks. Click on "Learn more" to see the available keyboard shortcuts. Change account settings It is not recommended to manage your password from this section. You should change your password at http://www.hawaii.edu/username. Calendars tab If you click on the Calendars tab within the Calendar settings, you can edit settings for each of your calendars. There are two sections under this tab -- "My Calendars" and "Other Calendars". Everything listed in the "My Calendars" section are calendars that you have complete control over. If you click on a calendar's name (furthest column on the left), you will be taken to a Calendar Details window for that calendar. On this window, you can change the following options. Calendar Name Use this to change the name that appears for the calendar in your "My Calendars" section, and also under the "Calendar" drop down menu when you are editing event details. Description Use this to enter a description of your calendar Location You can type in your location if you wish, or leave this blank. Calendar Time Zone You can use this option to set a Country and time zone just for this calendar. If you leave it at the default, the calendar will use the time zone you set under the General tab. Auto-accept invitations The default is for all meeting invitations to be added to your calendar, whether or not you accept it. You can change this to "Auto-accept invitations that do not conflict", which means that any invitation that does not conflict with an event that's already on your calendar will be accepted and added to your calendar. You can also choose "Do not show invitations", which means meetings will only be added to your calendar if you accept them. Embed This Calendar You can copy and paste the code shown into a website if you wish to display your calendar on a web page. You will have to grant make your calendar public for this option to work. Calendar Address Clicking on "XML", "ICAL", or "HTML" in this section will generate a link to your calendar in those formats, that you can give to others to use to subscribe to your calendar. For example, you could give the information generated by clicking on "ICAL" to someone who uses iCal on a Macintosh, and they would then be able to view your calendar from within iCal rather than logging into Google calendar. You will have to make your calendar public for these to work. Private Address Clicking on "XML", "ICAL", or "HTML" in this section will generate a link to your calendar in those formats, that you can use to subscribe to your calendar from an external program. For example, if you use iCal on a Macintosh, you could subscribe to your calendar from iCalusing the information from the "ICAL" button, and you would then be able to view your calendar from within iCal rather than logging into Google calendar. The information from the buttons in this section will grant access to all your events, so it's just for your use; do not give these out to anyone. If you suspect that the information has been given out, you can click on "Reset Private URLs" to generate a new set of information for each button. Share this Calendar When you are editing a specific calendar's options, one of the links at the top will be "Share this Calendar". Please refer to http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1155 for information on this section. Notifications When you are editing a specific calendar's options, one of the links at the top will be "Notifications" Event reminders By default, you will not be reminded of any event on your calendar, unless you specifically set a reminder. You can click on "Add a reminder" to change the default to always send you a reminder (unless you specify something different in a specific event). You can specify an email, pop-up, or text message (SMS) reminder. The pop-up reminder only works if you have Google calendar open in your web browser. The SMS option will only be available if you have enabled "Notify me on my cell phone" under the "Mobile Setup" option (see below). In addition to how you are reminded, you can also specify how much before an event you are reminded. Choose how you would like to be notified If you wish to be notified about any of the items listed in this section, check the box for Email or SMS (text messaging). The SMS option will only be available if you've enabled your mobile phone to receive notifications. Mobile Setup tab You can use this tab to set your mobile phone to receive calendar notifications. Enter your area code and phone number in the "Phone number" box, then click on "Send verification code". A text message with a verification code will be sent to your phone. Enter the code in the "Verification code" box, then click "Finish setup". Once you finish setup, this tab will change to be the "Notifications" tab. To remove mobile notifications from your phone, text STOP and the number provided in the original message.
