Question: How do I share my Google@UH Calendar?
Article Text: To share your calendar with everyone, follow these steps: In the “My calendars” section on the left side of the page, click on the down-arrow button next to the calendar you want to share, then select Share this calendar. Alternatively, click the "Settings" link at the bottom of the “My calendars” section, then click the “Share this calendar” link next to the calendar you want to share. This may also say "Shared: Edit Settings" if you have previously shared your calendar with someone else. Check the box next to "Share this calendar with others" If you want everyone, whether part of UH or not, to be able to see your calendar, check the box next to "Make this calendar public". If you only want to share your calendar with people who are part of UH, check the box next to "Share this calendar with everyone in the organization University of Hawaii". Next to to the option you chose, select a level of permission from the drop-down menu. (See below for a description of the different permission levels.) Click on "Save" to save your changes. To share your calendar with specific users, follow these steps: In the “My calendars” section on the left side of the page, click on the down-arrow button next to the calendar you want to share, then select "Share this calendar". Alternatively, click the "Settings" link at the bottom of the “My Calendar” section, then click the “Share this calendar” link next to the calendar you want to share. This may also say "Shared: Edit Settings" if you have previously shared your calendar with someone else. Enter the (hawaii.edu) email address of the person you want to share your calendar with in the “Person” box. From the "Permission Settings" drop-down menu, select a level of permission, then click "Add Person". (See below for a description of the different permission levels.) Once you click Add Person, the person you selected to share the calendar with will receive an email invitation to view your calendar. Click on "Save" to save your changes. These are the different levels of permissions: See only free/busy (hide details): If you select this, the person will be able to see that there are events on your calendar, but not any information about the event. All they will see is that your time is blocked off. All of your events will appear to them with the title “busy”. See all event details: If you select this, the person will be able to see everything on your calendar, except for events that you specifically mark private. They will not be able to make any changes, additions, or deletions to your calendar. Make changes to events: If you select this, the person will be able to see everything on your calendar, including private events, as well as make changes, additions, and deletions to your calendar. Make changes AND manage sharing: If you select this, the person will have the same access to your calendar as yourself. They can add, delete, or edit events, including private events. They can also edit the sharing settings and share your calendar with other people. You can currently share your calendar with up to 75 users per day. If you'd like to share your calendars with more users, please wait 24 hours before trying again. If you're having trouble sharing your calendar, remove the shared person from your calendar settings and share your calendar again to resolve the problem.
