Question: Google@UH Gmail FAQs
Article Text: Overview Gmail is Google's email service. This document is a compilation of frequently asked questions (FAQ). How do I check my Google@UH Gmail account? How Do I Enable IMAP/POP on Google Mail? What are the IMAP/POP settings for Google@UH Gmail? Trouble connecting an email client to Google@UH Gmail How do I enable POP for access from multiple computers? Known Problems with IMAP when using Google@UH How do I Improve IMAP Performance for Google@UH? How do I improve the performance of Microsoft Outlook with Google@UH Gmail? Why do some of my messages get grouped together in Google@UH Gmail? Deleting Messages in Google@UH Gmail What happened to my email folders? How do I flag a message for follow-up? Why do I have all of these extra contacts? What are the sending limits for Gmail? How do I increase my storage quota for Google@UH Gmail? Which web browsers are supported for Google@UH Gmail? How do I setup email forwarding in Google@UH Gmail? How do I change my email display name in Google@UH Gmail? What is Offline mode in Google@UH Gmail? How do I sort my email in Gmail? How do I send a read/delivered receipt with a message? Why don't I receive a copy of my own message when sending to a LISTSERV list? How Do I Prevent Emails From Being Incorrectly Marked as Spam When Using Google@UH Gmail? How do I check my Google@UH Gmail account? You can check your Google@UH Gmail account in one of three ways: Through the Google@UH Gmail web interface. Through MyUH Services - once you login to MyUH Services, you will need to find the Gmail task and click on the button to launch Google@UH Gmail. You can click on the heart to save it as a favorite so you don't have to search for the task each time. Through a POP/IMAP email client - you will need to enable POP/IMAP on your account before you setup your email client. Client setup instructions to connect to Google@UH Gmail are here. How Do I Enable IMAP/POP on Google Mail? Enabling IMAP for Google@UH Gmail To setup IMAP for Google@UH Gmail, you must first enable IMAP by: Log into Google@UH Gmail. Click on the gear icon in the upper right, then select See all settings. Click on the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab. Under IMAP Access, select the radio button for Enable IMAP and click on Save Changes. You should be back viewing your Inbox. Click on See all settings again. Click on the Labels tab. Find the All Mail label and make sure Show in IMAP is unchecked. You may now open and configure your email client. Enabling POP for Google@UH Gmail To Setup POP for Google@UH Gmail, you must first enable POP by: Logging into Google@UH Gmail. Click on the gear icon in the upper right, then select See all settings. Click on the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab. Under POP Download, select the radio button for Enable POP for all mail or Enable POP for mail that arrives from now on. Choose what to do with your messages when they are accessed by a POP client. Click Save Changes Click here to enable POP for access from multiple computers. Click here for additional IMAP/POP and SMTP settings. What are the IMAP/POP settings for Google@UH Gmail? The information in this article explains the settings for IMAP and POP email clients. An explanation of IMAP and POP clients can be found here. The supported ITS email clients are: Windows: Outlook 2007 and higher, Thunderbird Macintosh: Mac Mail, Thunderbird Note: Make sure you have enabled IMAP/POP in Google@UH Gmail before you continue, instructions can be found here. You can configure mail using IMAP or POP in most third party email clients and mobile devices using the settings below. How to configure IMAP: If your device supports email via IMAP connection, you can connect the Google Apps email using the following information: Incoming Mail (IMAP) Server - requires SSL: imap.gmail.com Use SSL: Yes Port: 993 Outgoing Mail (SMTP) Server - requires TLS: smtp.gmail.com (use authentication) Use Authentication: Yes Port for TLS/STARTTLS: 587 Port for SSL: 465 Account Name: your full email address (username@hawaii.edu) Email Address: your full email address (username@hawaii.edu) Password: your password Outlook 2010 setup instructions, click here. Thunderbird (PC) setup instructions click here. For more information on setting up a specific email client for IMAP, click here. For Google's recommended IMAP settings click here. These settings will help optimize IMAP client performance. How to configure POP: If your device supports email via POP3 connection, you can connect the Google Apps email using the following information: Incoming Mail (POP3) Server - requires SSL: pop.gmail.com Use SSL: Yes Port: 995 Outgoing Mail (SMTP) Server - requires TLS: smtp.gmail.com (use authentication) Use Authentication: Yes Use STARTTLS: Yes (some clients call this SSL) Port: 465 or 587 Account Name: your full email address (username@hawaii.edu) Email Address: your full Gmail email address (username@hawaii.edu) Password: your password For more information on setting up a specific email client for POP, click here. Click here to enable POP for access from multiple computers. Please note that if your client doesn't support SMTP authentication, you won't be able to send mail through your client using your Google Apps Mail address. Also, if you're having trouble sending mail but you've confirmed that encryption is active for SMTP in your mail client, try to configure your SMTP server on a different port: 465 or 587. #imap #pop Trouble connecting an email client to Google@UH Gmail If experiencing problems connecting your email client to Google@UH Gmail, please attempt the following: Ensure that IMAP/POP is enabled for your Google@UH Gmail account. Refer to Ask Us 1147 for instructions on doing this. Verify that you are using the correct IMAP/POP settings for Google@UH Gmail. Refer to Ask Us 1077 for proper settings. Check that the problem isn't due to your UH Username password. Note: If you have not changed your password since 2010, you may need to change your password by going to http://www.hawaii.edu/username before IMAP/POP will work. Check if your Google@UH Gmail account is disabled from IMAP/POP access by going to the Google Captcha page. If you have any questions or need further asistance, please contact the ITS Help Desk. How do I enable POP for access from multiple computers? Google has implemented what they call recent mode. Recent mode allows you to download your email messages for storage on multiple computers. Please note that this will only download email messages from the last 30 days. To enable recent mode, first make sure that POP is enabled for your account. Instructions can be found at http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1147. Next, setup your username in your email client as recent:username@hawaii.edu. Please use your own UH username where it says. For detailed instructions please visit http://mail.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?answer=47948. Known Problems with IMAP when using Google@UH Currently known issues with IMAP: Non-English labels don't display properly in Outlook 2002, 2003, and Outlook Express Users with thousands of email messages may have problems with their email clients crashing Email clients may take a while to download email messages initially For more information on these issues, please visit http://mail.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=78771. How do I Improve IMAP Performance for Google@UH? Improve IMAP performance by disabling the All Mail folder for IMAP download. Please make sure your email client is closed before you begin this process. Login to Google@UH email account with your UH Username and Password. Click on Settings. Click on the Labels tab. Find the All Mail label and make sure Show in IMAP is unchecked. You may now open your email client. You should no longer see the All Mail folder listed. For Google's recommended IMAP settings click here. These settings will also help optimize IMAP client performance. How do I improve the performance of Microsoft Outlook with Google@UH Gmail? Google Workspace Sync for Microsoft Outlook syncs all your Google@UH email, calendar events, and contacts between your Google@UH account and your profile in Outlook, so you can access the same information at any time from either interface. It also vastly improves the performance of email if using Microsoft Outlook as your email client. System Requirements: Windows 10 or later Microsoft Outlook 2010® (32 and 64 bit), Microsoft Outlook 2013® (32 and 64 bit), Microsoft Outlook 2016® (32 and 64 bit), Microsoft Outlook 2019® (32 and 64 bit) To download G Suite Sync for Microsoft Outlook, click here. For more information on G Suite Sync for Microsoft Outlook, click here. Why do some of my messages get grouped together in Google@UH Gmail? This article explains how the conversation feature (grouping of messages) works in Google@UH Gmail. What are conversations? Gmail groups all replies with their original message to make messages easier to follow. These grouped messages are called conversations. Click here for more information on conversations. This feature is turned on by default. You can turn this feature off by going to Settings. Under General, look for the Conversation View setting and select Conversation view off. Can I delete just one email out of a conversation? While in the conversation, you can click on the drop down arrow on the far right of the message that you wish to delete and select Delete this message. Deleting Messages in Google@UH Gmail Where do deleted messages go? Deleted messages can be found in your Trash label. By default messages that have been left in Trash more than 30 days will be automatically deleted. Click the Empty trash now link to empty your trash and free up space on your email account. I deleted a message, but it is no longer located in my deleted folder. Can I get it back? If you have deleted a message permanently, by clicking Delete Forever in your Trash, then it is not possible to recover the message. Click here to read more about recovering deleted messages. What happened to my email folders? Gmail doesn’t use a folder system. Instead labels are used to group and organize messages. Labels are more efficient for organizing your email because conversations can have more than one label and they can be searched for by label name. Click here for more information on labels. How do I flag a message for follow-up? Gmail uses a star system instead of flags. To star a message, click on the star icon to make the message stand out in your inbox. To view all starred messages click on the Starred link in the label list. Why do I have all of these extra contacts? By default Gmail adds contacts that are not already in your contact list to your All Contacts list when you reply to, forward, or compose a new message. What are the sending limits for Gmail? To prevent spam and email abuse, Google has implemented a 2,000 message per day sending limit on all accounts. One email message may contain up to 500 recipients. Click here to learn more about Gmail sending limits. The maximum message size for messages in Google cannot be greater than 25MB. However, you may experience issues if the recipients email service utilizes a smaller message size limit. To send large attatchments, we recommend that you send them utilizing the UH File Drop Service. Google also restricts the file types that may be sent through their services. These file types are not limited to but include, ".bat", ".cmd", ".com", ".exe", and ".sys". Click here for a full listing of blocked file types. How do I increase my storage quota for Google@UH Gmail? Google@UH accounts storage quotas are based on a person's affiliation. For more information on storage quotas refer to https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1882 Which web browsers are supported for Google@UH Gmail? Web browsers supported by Google includes, but is not limited to: FireFox 2.0 and higher Internet Explorer 6.0 and higher Safari 3.0 and higher Other supported browsers Please note that even though Google's browser support is extensive, ITS can only officially support the browsers listed here. If you experience problems viewing Gmail in your browser please try HTML view. HTML view is optimal for older unsupported browsers. HTML view is missing key features of Gmail like chat, spell checker, and colored labels. To turn on HTML view, click on the link that says basic HTML at the bottom of screen while you are logged into Gmail. Click here to learn more about HTML view. How do I setup email forwarding in Google@UH Gmail? To forward your incoming Google@UH email: Login to Google@UH Click on the Gear icon located on the upper right-hand corner. Select Mail settings. Click on the Forwarding and POP/IMAP tab Click the Add a forwarding address button Type the email address you wish to forward to and click Next. Click the Proceed button after verifying that the address you typed is correct. Select the radio button to Forward a copy of incoming mail to and select the correct email address from the drop down. Optionally you can set forwarding options. By default keep Gmail's copy in the Inbox is selected. Click Save Changes. For additional information on email forwarding in Gmail, click here. How do I change my email display name in Google@UH Gmail? Click on Settings, and then click Accounts. Next, click on Edit Info next to your current display name and email address. In the pop-up window select the radio button next to the text box and add your desired display name. Click Save Changes when finished. What is Offline mode in Google@UH Gmail? Offline mode allows users to access their email with no or limited internet access. Any changes you make to your account or emails you send will take effect once you have a good and stable internet connection. In this mode you will not receive any messages. Turning this feature on requires the installation of Gears for Google. Click here to learn more about Offline mode. How do I sort my email in Gmail? Currently, sorting by date/subject/from/to/etc. is not supported in Gmail. How do I send a read/delivered receipt with a message? Currently, read/delivered receipts are not supported by Gmail. Why don't I receive a copy of my own message when sending to a LISTSERV list? Gmail recognizes that the incoming message is identical to the copy in your Sent Items and does not duplicate it to your inbox. Google's recommendation is that you cc yourself when sending messages to a mailing list from your Google@UH Gmail account. Since you are unable to receive copies of your own messages, another available option is to enable the ACK setting, which is an acknowledgement email from LISTSERV that your message was sent to X number of recipients. In addition, if your list has archives enabled, you can see if your message was posted to the list by checking the archives.. To change your current ACK settings, you may do the following: A. Enable ACK in your subscription options Under Subscriber Options in the navigation pane on the left, select Subscriptions. Click on the name of the list you want to enable acknowledgements for. Click on the menu button along the right-side of the page (it should look like three horizontal lines stacked together). Then, click on Subscribe or Unsubscribe. In the Acknowledgements section, select Short Message Confirming Receipt. Then, click on Update Settings. B. Enable ACK as default for new subscribers (List Owners Only) Under the List Management options in the navigation pane on the left, select List Configuration. Click on the Subscriptions tab. Select the list that you are modifying from the drop-down menu. Then, scroll down to Default-Options. Add the keyword ACK to the text field. If there are already other keywords listed as Default-Options, simply add a comma followed by the keyword ACK to the end. Then, click on Update. C. Enable ACK for existing subscribers (List Owners Only) Under the List Management options in the navigation pane on the left, select Subscriber Reports. Select the list that you are modifying from the drop-down menu. Click on Customize Report and check Acknowledgements. Then, click on Update. Use the check boxes on the left to select specific subscribers (or click on Check All to select all subscribers) and, using the drop-down menu at the bottom of the Acknowledgements column, select Ack. Then, click Update. How Do I Prevent Emails From Being Incorrectly Marked as Spam When Using Google@UH Gmail? Creating a filter for a particular sender/subject/etc Log in to Google@UH Gmail at http://gmail.hawaii.edu Click on 'Create a filter' (or within a message select 'More actions', then 'Filter messages like these') Enter the criteria for your filter then click 'Next Step'. Select the checkbox 'Never send it to Spam' and click on 'Create Filter'. You may also select the checkbox 'Also apply filter to the xx conversations below', which will apply the filter to existing messages. Creating a filter to prevent any messages from going to Spam Warning: All messages which would have been labeled as Spam will be delivered into the Inbox. Log in to Google@UH Gmail at http://gmail.hawaii.edu Click on 'Create a filter' (or within a message select 'More actions', then 'Filter messages like these') In the 'Has the words:' field, enter "is:spam" (without quotes), then click 'Next Step'. You should see a prompt "Warning: Filter searches containing "label:", "in:", "is:" criteria are not recommended". Click on 'OK' Select the checkbox 'Never send it to Spam' and click on 'Create Filter'. You may also select the checkbox 'Also apply filter to the xx conversations below', which will apply the filter to existing messages.
