Question: Basic Tasks in Google@UH Gmail
Article Text: When you first login, a summary of the messages in your Inbox will be displayed. Your Inbox is a folder (a collection of email messages) where new mail is initially stored. If you see no messages, then your Inbox is empty. New messages will be bolded; read messages will be grayed out. Read a message - To read a message in your Inbox, click on the message's Sender or Subject. The email message will be displayed. Once a message is opened, the Gmail tool bar will appear. Hover your cursor above the icons to find out what they do. The tool bar icons from left to right are: Back to Inbox - returns you to the inbox listing of messages Archive - to archive the message Report Spam - to report the message as spam to Google Delete - to delete the message Mark as Unread - clicking this will display the message as unread, preventing it from being greyed out Snooze - Depending if you have notifications enabled on your desktop for Gmail or if you have UH Gmail on a mobile device, the Snooze function will alert you of the message at a later time that users can set themselves Add to [Google] Tasks - This is a function that comes within UH Gmail, and can be overlooked if you do not use Google Tasks. For more information on Google Tasks, please reference this webpage:>https://support.google.com/a/users/answer/9308887?hl=en Move to - select the folder from the drop down menu that you wish to move the message to Labels - to apply a label to the message; multiple labels may be applied to a message to facilitate organization of email More - for additional options Send a new message - Click on the Compose button in the left pane. The window appears for you to compose your message. Type in the email address of the recipient in the text box labeled To: (You may enter multiple recipients). Click on Cc or Bcc to add carbon copy or blind carbon copy recipients. (Note: CC stands for Carbon Copy - it means "send a copy to this person also." BCC stands for Blind Carbon Copy - "Don't let other people see that I am sending a copy to this person.") Type in the subject and the text of your message. When finished, click on the Send button to send your message. Once your message is sent, the window with the message will close automatically. If you wish to delete your draft, i.e. not send the composed message, click the Trash can icon (discard draft) on the lower right of the New Message window. There are several things you can do after reading an email message: Reply - Reply to a message by clicking on the Reply icon on the top right-hand side of the email (backwards pointing arrow). A new window appears below for you to compose your reply. The To field is automatically filled in with the email address of the person who sent the original message. You may add more recipients by clicking on the Cc or Bcc. The Subject field is also filled in as "Re: original subject". You may change the subject by clicking on Edit Subject. Type in the text of your message. To send the reply, click on Send. Once your message is sent, the window closes automatically. Reply to All - If you receive a message that was sent to several people (a message which had multiple recipients), you can choose to reply to only the sender (by using Reply) or to all of the recipients (by using Reply to All). The procedure for using Reply to All closely follows the procedure for using Reply. Clicking on More (3 dot icon) in an Email Forward - send one of your messages to another user by clicking on More and selecting Forward from the drop down menu. A new window appears below for the message you are forwarding. Enter the email addresses of the recipient(s). The subject line is filled in as "Fwd: original subject". The original message is included in the body of the message. Add the text of your message, then click on Send to send the message. Filter - You can filter emails by clicking on Filter messages like this. Gmail will proceed with steps on creating a filter and actions that will be taken for the filter. Print - to print a message, click More and select Print from the drop down menu. Delete - you can delete the message by clicking on the Delete button in the tool bar or selecting Delete this message from the pull down menu. This adds the message to your trash. Messages tagged as trash will be automatically deleted after 30 days. If you want to delete the message sooner, you can browse to the trash folder on the left toolbar and select the Trash folder. Click on Empty Trash Now to permanently delete the messages. Refer to the Labels section below on how to permanently delete messages in Trash. Block - If you do not want to receive any more emails from a sender, you can click on Block to have Gmail automatically send any future emails from the sender directly to the Spam folder. Gmail also has functions to report emails that are spam or phishing with Report spam and Report phishing. To learn more about spam and phishing, please visit https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/687 . Show original - click on More then select Show original to display the message headers containing information on who the email is from, the date and time it was sent, a list of recipients, and the subject. This is the same as displaying full email headers which will appear in a separate window. You will need to provide full email headers to report phishing messages to ITS. Translate - Clicking on Translate message allows Gmail to change the language of the body of the email to the language you set. Download - You can download the email by clicking on Download message. This will download the email in a .eml format. Mark Unread - Clicking on Mark unread from here will flag emails as unread starting from the email you selected.
