Question: Using Labels in Google@UH Gmail
Article Text: Rather than using folders, Gmail uses labels. There are many benefits in using labels as opposed to folders. A message can have more than one label You can search for messages by label Reduce the number of duplicate messages Here are some of the basic tasks you can perform with labels. Create a label -You can create a label by clicking on the Labels drop-down menu, then select Manage labels. Select Create new, type the name of your new label and select Create. If you select multiple messages, or are viewing a specific email message, click on the Labels drop-down menu to display the option Create new. After creating a new label, the new label can be selected by clicking on the Labels drop-down menu. Any selected messages will be categorized with the label chosen from the drop-down menu. Delete/Edit a label -To Delete/Edit a label, select the Labels drop-down menu, and select Manage labels. From the labels screen, you can show, hide, or remove any existing label. If you select an existing label by name, you will have the option to change the name of the label. Changing the name of an existing label will rename the label for any messages that were categorized under the label. Deleting a label will not delete any messages that were categorized under the deleted label; e.g. a message that had been labeled as "Inbox" and "Google", would retain the "Inbox" label after deleting the "Google" label. Search labels - One benefit of labels versus folders is that a message can be searched by label. Messages can have multiple labels, which return better search results. To search for a message by label, enter "label:" in the search box followed by the search criteria. A list of your labels should display, you can select the appropriate label from the list of labels, or you can contiue typing. Select Search Mail to search for the desired label. For more information on labels go to http://mail.google.com/support/bin/topic.py?hl=en&topic=12881 .
