Question: Using Attachments in Google@UH Gmail
Article Text: It is possible to send files to another person by attaching them to email messages. These files are referred to as attachments . Any kind of computer file can be an attachment: a word processing file, a spreadsheet, a database, an audio or video file, etc. However, please be advised that email with certain extensions are deleted due to security risks e.g. viruses or other damaging programs. For more information, please refer to: http://mail.google.com/support/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=6590 Although the recipient may be able to receive an attachment, the file is not usable if the recipient does not also have the appropriate program to read the file. For example, if you send an MS Word file to a person who uses Word Perfect, the recipient may not be able to use the file. Likewise, there are sometimes problems involved in sending files between PCs and Macs. In addition, Google imposes a maximum email size limit of 25 MB. (As a caution, large files take up valuable quota disk space and should be off-loaded to your personal computer.) As an alternative, please see the File Drop service at: http://www.hawaii.edu/filedrop for transferring large files. To send an attachment: compose a message and click Attach a file (next to paper clip) on the tool bar. Use the browser to find the file to attach and click Open to attach the file. (If your files are large you may see a progress bar as your file is uploaded) To attach another file click on Attach another file and follow the same procedures. To remove an attachment , uncheck the box for appropriate file. It is good practice to mention that you are sending an attachment and specify its format. (For example: "I am attaching a spreadsheet in MS Excel 2003 format.") To receive an attachment: Read the message as you normally would. If there is an attachment, they will be displayed below the message. Depending on the attachment type, you may have several options to choose from. (Open as Google document, View, View as HTML, etc) You can also choose to Download the attachment to your computer, or if there are multiple attachments 'Download all attachments" (in a zip file). For more information on attachments, go to http://mail.google.com/support/bin/topic.py?hl=en&topic=12834 .
