Question: Working with web links in the Resources tool in Laulima
Article Text: Note: The following procedures are intended only for users with the appropriate permission settings. If you find you are unable to perform the following procedures please check with the instructor or admin of your laulima site to verify you have the appropriate permission settings. Here are the steps involved in adding a web address or Universal Resource Locator (URL). (If you would like more information or to see steps with screen shots please scroll down or click the step you would like more information on. To return here scroll back to the top.) 1. Click "Resources" 2. Next to the folder to which you want to add the URL, Click the "Add" menu, click "Add Web Links" (URLs). 3. Type the URL in the box. 4. Type a title for your URL link resource. 5. Click "Add details for this item" to add a description, and control access and visibility.* 6. Click "Add Another Web Link" to add another URL.* 7. Choose an "Email Notification" if desired.* 8. Click "Add Web Links Now" to finish. Items with a * are optional To edit a Weblink's details Click on Action, Click on Edit Details To update a Weblink address Click on Action, Click on Edit Content To add a Resources item that is a URL to a web site: 1. In your site's menubar, click Resources. 2. Next to the folder you want to add the URL, Click the "Add" menu then click "Add Web Links" (URLs). 3. For each resource, type the URL in the box. (You may omit the http:// prefix.)the example is http://www.hawaii.edu. 4. Add a title for your URL link resource. If you do not add a title, the URL will be used as the title of the resource by default 5. To add a description and control access and visibility, click Add details for this item. * Next to "Description", enter text to describe the site to which you're linking. * Under "Availability and Access", control who can access the URL and when it's available, as follows: o To display the resource to site members only, select Only members of this site can see this file. (This option is not available if the folder to which you're adding the resource is publicly viewable.) o To share the resource with another site to which you belong (e.g., as an attachment to a syllabus item for another course or project you're leading), select This file is publicly viewable. (This option is not available if the folder to which you're adding the resource is publicly viewable.) o To display the resource only to selected groups, select Display this file to selected groups only. , and then select the group(s) that should have access. (This option does not appear if you don't have any groups in your site; for more, see Managing groups.) o To show or hide your resource, or set a beginning and/or ending date for its visibility, click the appropriate selections. (This option does not appear when you're adding an item to Resources in My Workspace.) Site administrators will always be able to see hidden items, even when they are hidden from other users. * To add detailed descriptors, click Optional properties. You can then add information to the following fields: o Alternate Title o Creator o Publisher o Subject and Keywords o Date Created o Date Issued o Abstract o Contributor o Audience o Audience Education Level Note: To remove a URL from the list of URLs to add, click the red X next to it. 6. To add another URL, click Add Another Web Link. 7. Email Notification Next to "Email Notification", specify whether or not you want to have members of the site notified automatically via email when the resource is posted. (This option does not appear when you're adding an item to Resources in My Workspace.) Note: The notification email message will include the web site title and description (if you entered one), and the URL. 8. Click "Add Web Links Now" to finish. Editing a web link's details To edit the name, description, or availability and access settings for a web link, from the Actions menu next to the link's name, click Edit Details. Make your changes, and then click Update to save them. Updating a web link URL or web address To change the URL for a web link, from the Actions menu next to the link's name, click Edit Content. Make your change, and then click Continue. Note: this does NOT edit the title. If you would like to edit the title please follow the instructions for Editing a web link's details above.
