Question: How Do I Share or Change the Owner of a Google@UH Drive document?
Article Text: If you are the owner of a Google Drive document, you can share the document with other UH users or assign ownership of the document to another UH user. Sharing a Google Drive document From the Drive document list, select the document by placing a checkmark, then click on Share . Alternatively, after selecting the document by placing a checkmark, you can click on More, then Share. In the Sharing Settings window that appears, enter the email address or addresses of the user or users you would wish to share with. Choose the permission level that you wish to apply for the user or users (Edit, Comment, or View). Choose whether to notify the user or users that the document has been shared with them by checking the appropriate checkbox. Click Share & Save . Changing ownership for a Google Drive document If you have not already shared the document with the person you wish to designate as the new owner, follow the steps above to share the document. If the document is already being shared with the person you wish to designate as the new owner, follow steps 2-5 below. From the Drive document list, select the document by placing a checkmark, then click on Share . Alternatively, after selecting the document by placing a checkmark, you can click on More, then Share. In the Sharing Settings window that appears, click on the permission level next to the user you wish to designate as the new owner. Select Is Owner as the new permission level. Click Save changes. Additional Sharing Information Sharing can be quickly accessed while the document is open by clicking on the blue Share icon in the upper right-hand corner. By default, any individuals you share the document with who are assigned editing privileges can add other individuals and change permissions. You can change this behavior in the Sharing Settings window by clicking on the Change link below the Add People area. By default, the document will only be visible with individuals who you've explicitly added. You can change this behavior in the Sharing Settings window by clicking on the Change link next to Private. Google provides instructions on changing the owner from within the document or through the Docs list at the following link. https://support.google.com/drive/bin/answer.py?hl=en&answer=2494892&from=92358&rd=1
