Question: Moving Mail to hard drive - Mac Mail
Article Text: Setup Mac Mail for IMAP To launch Mac Mail, double click on your hard drive, then double click on the Applications folder, then double click on the Mail icon. If this is not the first time you are setting up Mac Mail, go to the "Mail" menu and select Preferences. Click on the Accounts icon, then click on the + button. If this is the first time you are setting up Mac Mail, you will see a "Welcome to Mail" screen. Fill in the boxes as follows: Full Name: your name Email address: your hawaii.edu email address (for example, jsmith@hawaii.edu) Password: do not enter this Click Continue [Mac OS 10.6] You will be told that login to Exchange has failed. Ignore this and click Continue. Fill in the next screen as follows: Account type: select IMAP Description: your hawaii.edu email address (for example, jsmith@hawaii.edu) Incoming Mail Server: imap.gmail.com User Name: <username@hawaii.edu> Password: do not enter this Click Continue You will get an error message that login has failed. This is OK. Click Continue. Make sure the box for "Use Secure Sockets Layer (SSL)" is checked. Authentication should be set to Password. Click Continue. Fill in this screen as follows: Description: Google@UH Outgoing Mail Server: smtp.gmail.com Check the box for Use Authentication In the User Name box, type <username@hawaii.edu> In the Password box, type your password Click Continue. At the "Account Summary" window, you should see that SSL for the incoming and outgoing servers is set to "on". Check the box for "Take account online", then click Create You will be prompted for your password. Type your password and click OK. If you are asked if you want to see what's new in Mac Mail, click Don't Show. Mac Mail should now connect to the UH mail server, and display your messages and folders in the Mac Mail Main window. This may take some time depending on how many messages you have in your Inbox. Creating folders on your hard drive Mac Mail has three "panes". The list of folders you have on the server will display in the left side pane. Your Inbox index of messages will appear on the top right side. If you click on a message, its contents will be displayed in the lower right side pane. The first step in moving your mail to your hard drive is to create local mail folders that have the same name as your folders on the mail server. Go to the "Mailbox" menu and select New Mailbox Make sure the "Location" is set to "On My Mac" In the "Name" box, type UH Email Backup. Click OK. On the left side, click on the "UH Email Backup" folder. Go to the "Mailbox" menu and select New Mailbox. Make sure the "Location" is set to "UH Email Backup". In the "Name" box, type Inbox. Click OK. Repeat steps 4 - 6 and create folders for all the different folders you have on the server. (E.g. Drafts, Sent, Trash, and whatever else is listed on the left-hand side under "Mailboxes" and your hawaii.edu email address.) When you are done, if necessary, click on the triangle next to "UH Email Backup" to expand and show what's stored inside. Your Mac Mail window should look similar to below, except with your information: Moving mail to your hard drive You should probably try the following steps on a small amount of messages first, Be sure you are comfortable with this process before attempting to move a critical folder such as Sent or Inbox. You first have to select the folder you wish to move. In our example, we will move the folder, "work". On the left side of the screen, click on the folder "work" that's listed under the "username@hawaii.edu" section (do not select the one under "UH Email Backup"). Go to the "Edit" menu, then select Select All. All the messages in the "work" folder should be selected. Note: if you have a large amount of messages in a folder, do not use Select All. Select a smaller chunk of messages by clicking on the first message you want to move, then hold down the shift key and click on the last message you want to move. Go to the "Message" menu --> select Move To --> then select the "work" folder that's located under the "UH Email Backup" section under the "On My Mac" section (this is important!) The messages will be moved to the "work" folder. Depending on how many messages you had selected, this could take some time. On the left side, select the "work" folder under the UH Email Backup section and verify the messages are there. Repeat steps 1 - 5 for each of your folders. When you feel you have moved all your messages, you should login to Google@UH Gmail at http://gmail.hawaii.edu. At the bottom of any Google@UH Gmail page, there will be a quota indicator.
