Question: Spirion for macOS
Article Text: System Requirements macOS 10.9 Mavericks or higher Intel-based hardware platforms Upgrade Warning Upgrading macOS 10.12 or earlier with a disk format of HFS+ and Spirion Endpoint for Mac 10.6 or greater to High Sierra (macOS 10.13) or greater can result in system failure. Downloading Spirion Visit the University of Hawaii Software Download Page to get the latest version of Spirion. You will need to login with your UH Username and Password. Installing Spirion Close all applications. Double click on the *.zip file you just downloaded to unzip the contents. Open the folder that was placed on your desktop and double click on the Spirion.pkg file. The setup wizard opens. Click Continue. Click Install. Input your password to the popup verification prompt. Press Install Software. Please wait while the files are installed. Click Close. You can find Spirion in the Applications folder. Running Spirion for the First Time You will be asked to create a password for your Spirion profile. Your profile allows you to save your settings and automatically uses your profile password when securing results or saving reports. You will be asked for your profile password when Spirion starts and when opening secure results and reports. Enter a strong password for Spirion Profile. Click OK. The Search Setup window opens. The recommended search criteria should include Social Security Numbers, Credit Card Numbers, Bank Account Numbers, and Driver Licenses. Click Search. Spirion will begin searching for all identity matches. A Status Windows will appear to show your current status. If identity information is found, you will need to decide what action to take for each identity information data file found (options include shred, scrub or redact, secure, and quarantine). When the search is done, click OK Remediate the information found, and then run a rescan to confirm that information has been removed Recommended Configuration Settings Recommended Configuration Settings Getting Started The following is a simple getting started to help you get going using Spirion. For complete vendor supported documentation on running Spirion please visit the following link. To get started, open Finder, navigate to Applications, and double click on Spirion. Enter the password for your Spirion Profile. Click OK. Modify the search settings: Check the identities you wish to search for. Uncheck any unwanted categories. The recommended search criteria should include Social Security Numbers, Credit Card Numbers, Bank Account Numbers, and Driver Licenses. For Locations, select the desired locations. Click Search. Spirion will begin searching for all identity matches. A Status Window will appear to show your current status. You may interact with results as they appear or wait for the scan to complete. Click Wizard, selected by default, and Spirion will begin walking you through the Results Wizard. NOTE: We recommend that you rescan your system once remediation is completed.
