Question: Spirion for Windows
Article Text: System Requirements Windows 10 or later Windows Server 2016/R2 (or higher) Microsoft Visual C++ 2015 Redistributable Update 3RC 32bit version 50MB hard drive space Downloading Spirion Visit the University of Hawaii Software Download Page to get the latest version of Spirion. You will need to login with your UH Username and Password. Installing Spirion Close all applications. Double click on the *.msi file you just downloaded. At the warning, click Run. The setup wizard opens. Click Next. Select "I accept the terms of the License Agreement" and click Next. Click the Typical button. Click Install. Please wait while the files are installed. Enter your administrator password when prompted. Click Yes. "Launch Spirion" is checked by default. Click Finish. Running Spirion for the First Time Check or uncheck "Yes, I an willing to anonymously participate in Customer Experience." Click OK. You will be asked to create a password for your Spirion profile. Your profile allows you to save Spirion settings and automatically uses your profile password when securing results or saving reports. You will be asked for your profile password when Spirion starts and when opening secure results and reports. Enter a strong password for your Spirion Profile. Click Next. Click OK at the profile password set window. The Spirion Search Wizard window opens. Click Continue Search Wizard button. In the Search Wizard Window, click Configure Search. The recommended search criteria should include Social Security Numbers, Credit Card Numbers, Bank Account Numbers, and Driver Licenses. Click Search. Click Next. For Locations, take the defaults (or modify, as needed). Click Next. Click Finish. Spirion will begin searching for all identity matches. A Status Windows will appear to show your current status. If identity information is found, you will need to decide what action to take for each identity information data file found (options include shred, scrub or redact, secure, and quarantine). When the search is done, a summary report will be displayed. Click Exit. Recommended Configuration Settings Recommended Configuration Settings Getting Started The following is a simple getting started to help you get going using Spirion. For complete vendor supported documentation on running Spirion please visit the following link. To get started go to the Windows Start Menu, choose Programs, then the Spirion group, then Spirion. Or click on the Spirion shortcut on your desktop. Enter the password for your Spirion Profile. Click Next. Click Start Search Now button to use the default search settings or the previous search settings. To modify search settings, click Continue Search Wizard button. Click Configure Search button. Check the identities you wish to search for. Uncheck any unwanted categories. The recommended search criteria should include Social Security Numbers, Credit Card Numbers, Bank Account Numbers, and Driver Licenses. Click Next. For Locations, select the desired locations. Click Next. Spirion will begin searching for all identity matches. A Status Window will appear to show your current status. You may interact with results as they appear or wait for the results wizard after the scan is complete. Click Wizard, selected by default, and Spirion will begin walking you through the Results Wizard. NOTE: We recommend that you rescan your system once remediation is completed.
