Question: Malware - What is it and Steps to Protect your Computer
Article Text: Malware – What is it and how is it distributed? (Malicious software) Malware is a generic term used to describe various types of malicious software designed to remotely exploit an electronic device without your knowledge and in most cases for financial gain. There are numerous types of malware to name a few; viruses, worms, Trojans, keystroke loggers, spyware, and adware. The increase in types of mobile devices, cloud computing, and social networks have increased the landscape for malware attacks. Malware is constantly evolving and gets increasingly sophisticated making it more difficult to identify and contain. Some types of malware require some level of user interaction to initiate the infection process such as clicking on a web link in an e-mail, opening an executable file attached to an e-mail or visiting a website where malware is hosted. Check out the Ask Us article on some malware definitions Differences Between a Virus, Worm, and Trojan Horse. A keystroke logger is a hidden program on your computer that will record each key pressed on your keyboard and transmits or saves the information for the attacker. The attackers are typically collecting login information including passwords, credit card information and any information they can use for financial gain. Spyware is another type of software program installed on your computer without your knowledge. It collects information on your Internet surfing activity. The information is then used for marketing purposes or fraud. The information can be used maliciously to collect login and financial information typed on the keyboard. Adware is embedded in software you download for free or at a low cost. The intention is to display advertisements when you access the software. Adware can also include the same properties as spyware. E-mail attachments and links are popular methods for attackers to install malware on computers. A file attached to e-mail may have malware embedded in it, so when the file is opened the malware is released. A malicious link in e-mail can activate a malware program embedded in the e-mail message or it may open a Web page similar to the correct page, but with malware embedded in it. How do I protect my computer from Malware? The first thing you must do is build a defense against malware by installing Anti-virus and Anti-spyware software and keep it up to date Anti-Spyware Solution for Your PC. Also, use a personal firewall to block unwanted connections to your computer when connected to the Internet. This Ask Us article explains Personal Firewalls. Keep your computers operating system and software up to date with the latest patches. The rest is up to you to use safe Internet browsing practices. Safe browsing practices: Use strong passwords Never store logon information Keep your web browser up to date If you provide personal information: Make sure the site is legitimate and trustworthy Verify the site is encrypting your information (HTTPS) at the beginning of the URL Clear your cookies and cache refer to Ask Us articles Cookies & Cache Do not click on links unless you know they are legitimate Be wary of Internet downloads, innocent looking software or streaming media could contain malicious malware Do not click on links or attachments in e-mails unless you can verify its authenticity The University of Hawaii (UH) Information Technology Services (ITS) provides software, services, and technical support to protect the UH community against computer viruses and security threats. Refer to the Ask Us article for detailed installation information UH Computer Virus and Threat Information What do I do if I think my computer is infected? Refer to the Ask Us article Infected Computer AskUs 562 for some information on what to do if your Anti Virus program identifies a virus and other signs that may indicate your computer has been compromised. Attackers also use e-mail to try to extract your personal information that they will use for financial gain. These types of attacks are called “Phishing”. This Ask Us article explains what Phishing is and how to identify it. Phishing at UH You can subscribe to a list serve that sends out email notices of current phishing attacks sent to UH e-mail addresses, so you can avoid falling for the phishing attempt. Click on this link to access the Phishing Notifications web site. For additional resources on Information Security visit the Information Security Web Site http://www.hawaii.edu/infosec
