Question: Copyright in the Digital Age
Article Text: Intellectual property is the lifeblood of a university, and all members of the university community should respect the work of others inside and outside the academy. University of Hawaii Executive Policy E2.210: "Use and Management of Information Technology Resources" requires University students, faculty and staff to comply with U.S. Copyright Laws (exerpt from Section II. Context): "This policy creates the basis for such an environment by outlining the philosophy and general principles for appropriate use and management of information technology resources by University faculty, staff and students. It applies to all computing, information and network systems and services owned or administered by the University of Hawai‘i, as well as to individual activities that take place over the Internet or other external network connections using University systems, connections or user accounts. Appropriate use of technological resources is framed by the same legal and ethical considerations as are applicable to other public resources. Access to UH networks and computer systems is a privilege granted subject to existing University policies (e.g., the Student Conduct Code) as well as all applicable local, state, and federal laws (e.g., copyright law, child pornography prohibitions, computer crime statutes)." For example, software may not be duplicated or installed except in strict accordance with applicable licensing agreements. And University servers and networks may not be used to house or distribute unauthorized software, music, video or other information content. As required by Federal Regulation (EDUCAUSE Analysis of the Higher Education Opportunities Act of 2008), the University is required to investigate all reports of copyright infringement. Information about the University's process for managing reported copyright infringement activities can be found at: http://www.hawaii.edu/its/filesharing/ Pursuant to the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (1998), notifications of claimed infringement using University of Hawaii services should be filed with: Director of Information Technology University of Hawaii 2532 Correa Rd. Honolulu, HI 96822 ATTN: Garret Yoshimi Tel: 808-956-3501 Fax: 808-956-5025 Email: dmca-agent@hawaii.edu Because copyright compliance in the digital age is complex, especially in an educational institution, the following resources are suggested for further information. United States Copyright Office -- Official site, including the law, summaries, and federal activities in progress Copyright and Fair Use Resources -- Pointers to numerous useful resources, from the Stanford University Libraries Crash Course in Copyright -- from the University of Texas System
