Question: Drupal 7: Using Panels
Article Text: How to add a page How to edit a page How to add a link How to upload a file and link to text How to upload and display an image How to add a page Login as admin. Click on "Add Content." Click on "Panel." Choose your layout using the pull down menu under "Category." Then click on the layout you wish to use. Enter Title. Enable "In-Place editor." If a url path is needed, add it in the URL path settings section. Then click on "Save." Click on "Customize this Page" How to edit a page Login as admin. Go to page you want to edit. Click on "Customize this page." Click this icon to edit. Make your edits. Click on “Finish” Click on “Save” How to add a link Login as admin. Go to page you want to add a link to. Click on “Customize this page.” Click this icon to edit. Enter the words you want to link to, then highlight them. Click this icon to add a link. The following window will open. In “URL” enter the url. Then click on “OK.” Then click on “Finish.” Then click on “Save.” How to upload a file and link to text Login as admin. Go to page you want to upload a file to. Click on “Customize this page.” Click this icon to edit. Highlight the words you want to link to. Click this icon to add a link. The following window will open. Click on “Browse Server.” The following window will open. Click on the “upload” link and the following window will open. Click on the “Browse” button. A window will open depicting contents of your computer. Find the file you would like to upload and double-click on it. Then click on the “Upload” button. Once the file is uploaded, click on the “x” to close the upload window. Verify the title name is in the URL box, if not, click on “Browse Server” and double-click on the file you’ve just uploaded. Click on “OK.” Click on “Finish.” How to upload and display an image Login is admin Go to page you want to upload a file to. Click on “Customize this page.” Click this icon to edit. Click this icon to upload an image and the following will appear. Click on the “Browse Server” link to upload a file and the following window will open. Click on the “Browse” A window will open depicting contents of your computer. Find the file you would like to upload and double-click on it. Then click on the “Upload” button. Once the file is uploaded, click on the “x” to close the upload window. Verify the title name is in the URL box, if not, click on “Browse Server” and double-click on the file you’ve just uploaded. Click on “OK.” Click on “Finish.”
