Question: How Do I Set a Mail Template in LISTSERV?
Article Text: You can create or modify templates to customize informational messages from the LISTSERV processor. Mail templates do not modify the contents or style of mail sent to a list or through the newsletter feature. Note: The following sections make use of a specialized template syntax. For more information on how to use template commands and variables, click on the ? in the top-right corner or visit the official LISTSERV documentation. Setting a Pre-defined Template Style From the LISTSERV home page, click on Log In in the top-right corner and sign in using your email address and password. Under the List Management options in the menu on the left, select Mail Templates. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. If you own more than one list, use the Select List drop-down menu to choose which list you would like to set a template style for. Use the Template Style drop-down menu to select the desired style. To apply your chosen style use the Select button. Alternatively, you can use the Preview button to see how the style looks. You can test if the change was applied successfully by adding/removing a subscriber or performing any other command that generates an informational message from LISTSERV. Modifying an Existing Mail Template From the LISTSERV home page, click on Log In in the top-right corner and sign in using your email address and password. Under the List Management options in the menu on the left, select Mail Templates. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. If you own more than one list, use the Select List drop-down menu to choose which list you would like to modify templates for. If the template you would like to modify is not already listed in the table below, use the Template Categories drop-down menu to select the appropriate type. Click on the name of the template you want to modify in the table at the bottom of the page. Make the desired changes in the Content text field. Then, click Update. Creating a New Mail Template From the LISTSERV home page, click on Log In in the top-right corner and sign in using your email address and password. Under the List Management options in the menu on the left, select Mail Templates. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. If you own more than one list, use the Select List drop-down menu to choose which list you would like to create a new template for. Click on Create New Template. Enter a name and description for the new template in the Template Name and Template Description fields respectively. Then, click Create. Enter the desired text and template commands into the Content text field. Then, click Update.
