Question: IT Center FAQs
Article Text: Below you will find some of the most commonly asked questions concerning the new University of Hawaii Information Technology Center on the UH Manoa campus. The structure is designed to support modern teaching, administration and research for all ten UH campuses and students throughout the state of Hawaii. Click on a question to access its' corresponding answer. If you have comments/questions please email them to: itctrcom@hawaii.edu Updates on construction may be read on the UH IT Center webpage Follow construction images of the building on the UH Flickr page What is the official name of the IT Center? What is the campus building number of the IT Center? What is the address of the new building? How should mail be addressed when sent to the IT Center? When will the new building be open to the public? How secure will the building be? Will there be public access to the new building? What areas on the ground floor will the public have access to? Will the ground floor be locked "after hours"? Will guests need to check in or be buzzed in? Will the move into the new Center disrupt any ITS services? Will there be any disruptions of online systems located in the ITS Data Center during the move? Where did the money come from for construction of the new building? What is the total cost of the new building? Are environmental features built into the new IT Center? Who is the architect and the construction company responsible for the new building? Will the current spaces occupied on campus by ITS offices be available to other UH departments after the ITS move into the new IT Center? 1. Q: What is the official name of the new IT center? A: Information Technology Center [back to top] 2. Q: What is the campus building number of the IT center? A: Building number 1140 [back to top] 3. Q: What is the address of the new building? A: 2520 Correa Road [back to top] 4. Q: How should mail be addressed when sent to the IT Center? A: Use the building address: 2520 Correa Road. [back to top] 5. Q: When will the new building be open to the public? A: Scheduled by the end of 2013 [back to top] 6. Q: How secure will the building be? A: At this time, the first floor will be open. The second floor will be secure with limited access. The elevator will be open to floors three through six but the doors to the staff area on the floors will be secure. The reception desk on the first floor will have someone on duty during business hours who can notify staff when a visitor arrives. [back to top] 7. Q: Will there be public access to the new building? A: There will be public access on the ground floor. Access to upper floors will be via ITS staff. [back to top] 8. Q: What areas on the ground floor will the public have access to? A: The entry, reception area, hallways and the restrooms. will be open.The training room, digital media center and video conference rooms will be open as needed for training, consulting, meetings and other special events. [back to top] 9. Q: Will the ground floor be locked "after hours"? A: At this time, the doors to the building will be secured after regular business hours and on weekends and holidays. Staff will have access via their key cards. [back to top] 10. Q: Will guests need to check in or be buzzed in? A: Visitors to floors 3-6 will need an ITS staff member to open the secured doors on the floor for access. At this time building visitors will not be checked in the way visitors to Bachman are checked in. The ITS person at the reception desk can notify the appropriate ITS staff member that he or she has a visitor in the building. [back to top] 11. Q: Will the move into the new Center disrupt any ITS services? A: A move schedule is being developed with a focus on avoidance of any transition outages that might affect ITS services. [back to top] 12. Q: Will there be any disruptions of online systems located in the ITS Data Center during the move? A: At this time, October 25, 2013 no outages of online services are planned. ITS is contacting departments and campuses with hardware in the Data Center to coordinate details. If you have questions about any online service or equipment located in the Data Center please email Janice Kawachi or call 956-9595. [back to top] 13. Q: Where did the money come from for construction of the new building? A: A combination of State General Obligation Bonds and UH Revenue Bonds. [back to top] 14. Q. What is the total cost of the new building? A: Construction costs are budgeted at $41.6 million. [back to top] 15. Q. Are environmental features built into the new IT Center? A: The building is designed with Green design strategies including LEED silver certification. [back to top] 16. Q: Who is the architect and the construction company responsible for the new building? A: Ferraro Choi and Associates, Ltd., Architect; dck pacific construction, LLC, General Contractor; Bowers + Kubota Consulting, Construction Manager. [back to top] 17. Q: Will the current spaces occupied on campus by ITS offices be available to other UH departments after the ITS move into the new IT Center? A: The spaces vacated by ITS will be available to other UH Manoa departments. The UH Manoa Facilities Physical Environmental and Long Range Planning department will take over responsibility for these spaces. Questions concerning use of vacated ITS space should be directed to that deaprtment. [back to top]
