Question: Audio Conference Bridge
Article Text: What is the Audio Conference Bridge? The Audio Conference Bridge is a fully integrated, all-digital, audio conference bridge that allows between six (6) to twenty (20) people in different locations to communicate with each other. The unit is housed at our campus telephone switch and is designed to provide access to an in-house conference bridge, eliminating the need to contact conference service bureaus. How does the Audio Conference Bridge Work? To use the Conference Bridge, the participants dial a pre-assigned phone number, enter a password, and are prompted to "speak their name". Your conference bridge will be available at the start time requested so please make sure that all participants do not call in before the start time. An individual may leave a conference in progress at any time. The Audio Conference Bridge Features. Meet-me style conferencing (conferees join the conference at a pre-arranged time) Password protection Entry/Exit voice announcements How do I request the use of the Audio Conference Bridge? You may request the use of the Meridian Integrated Conference Bridge by sending an email to telecom@hawaii.edu with the following information: Date Start and End Time Contact Name and Phone Number Department name Number of Participants An email will be sent to you confirming your conference request along with the conference numbers and password. Please allow us 1 (one) business day notice to process your request. Why Would You Use the Audio Conference Bridge? The conference bridge has the ability to connect individuals located on the neighbor islands, on the mainland US, or in another country, as long as one of the conference bridge participants is a faculty or staff of one of the campuses across the UH system. This person will be responsible for the phone charges to the department. What is the Cost to Use the Audio Conference Bridge? There is no cost to use the Conference Bridge. Summary At least one conference bridge participant must be a faculty or staff of one of the campuses within the UH system to be the contact person and to take responsibility for any charges to the department. 30 minutes minimum - 12 hour maximum (reserved in 15 minute increments) 6 participants minimum - 20 participants maximum Request must be made 1 (one) business day in advance. If you have questions or would like to discuss this service, please call ITS Telecommunications at 956-6033
