Question: Telecommunications Forms
Article Text: The forms are in a fillable PDF format. Click on the form to open it in Adobe Acrobat. (Get Adobe Acrobat.) After filing out the appropriate form, print them out and send them to our office. You may also open the forms in a fillable Word format by clicking on the appropriate link. If you are having trouble accessing one or more of these forms, please contact the Telecom office by calling 956-6033 (extension 66033 from a campus line). Telecom Request - Campus Items - Form 1A (Word Format) Use this form for all telephone, data, and other telecommunications services except for those listed under UHTR Form 1 requiring Department of Budget & Finance approval. (The request for new lines or activation of jacks also requires the completion of Form 2) Telecom Request - DAGS - Form 1 Use this form for: SELEX Lines UH agencies situtated in State office bldgs managed or leased by DAGS or other departments within the Executive Branch Payphone & Long Distance services Radio Systems, equipment, and other accessories Interfacing with Hawaii Wide Area Integrated Information Access Network (HAWAIIAN) Hats Information Sheet (Word Format) Sprint Long Distance Carrier Form (Word Format) Telecommunications Management System Directory - Form 2 Use this form to provide directory information for new lines or activation of jacks. Use this form to provide updated information for exisiting lines as well. Note: The computerized Telecommunications System Directory is part of the Telecommunications Management System (TMS) and is used to maintain records of each line assignment. The campus operators also access this information to connect callers to individuals on campus. Transfer of Line - Form 2A (Word Format) Use this form to change ownership of line(s) from one department to another. Department Telecom Coordinator (DTC) Change Form - Form 2B (Word Format) Use this form to change a department's Telecommunications Coordinator (DTC). Calling Card Request - Form 3B (Word Format) Use this form to request Sprint FON cards. Note: Sprint FON cards for UHM business-related long distance calls should be used only when traveling outside of Oahu. Auth/DISA Code Calling Card Request - Form 3B-1 Use this form to request Sprint FON cards to replace Auth/DISA Codes. Account Code Change Request for Telephone Lines - Form 4 (Word Format) Use this form to update equipment and/or toll account codes for telephone lines. Account Code Change Request for Authorization Codes - Form 4A (Word Format) Use this form to update toll account codes for authorization codes. Account Code Change Request for Calling Cards - Form 4B (Word Format) Use this form to update toll account codes for calling cards. Conference Bridge Set-Up Request Form - Form 10 (Word Format) This form is used to request the use of the conference bridge. Telephone Charge Disputes - Form 12 (Word Format) Use this form to dispute any telephone charges. Request for Special Billing of Certain Long Distance Calls - Form 15 (Word Format) This form is used for execptional occasions to charge certain long distance calls to an account code other than the one assigned to the telephone being used to place the call(s). Request to Use Premises Wiring (Hawaiian Telcom Use only) This form is for use by Hawaiian Telcom to request use of premises wiring at the University of Hawai`i at Manoa.
