Question: Anti-virus for Windows
Article Text: For Anti-virus for MacOS, go to https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1652 Who is Eligible? Trellix (formerly McAfee) anti-virus software is licensed by the University of Hawaii (UH), Information Technology Services (ITS) site license for use by active UH faculty, staff, and students. Active UH faculty, staff, and students include any student taking a UH credit course, any faculty/staff currently employed by UH, and any faculty/staff currently employed by EWC/RCUH associated with UH. UH faculty, staff and students may install Trellix software for their UH-owned Windows computers (desktops and laptops), including computer labs on campus, and home computers (one license only). Upon termination of employment or student status at UH, all copies of Trellix software obtained through the University of Hawaii, Information Technology Services site license must be uninstalled. Trellix software can not be loaded on computers located outside the United States. Current Version McAfee Endpoint Security 10.7.0 Supported Platforms McAfee Endpoint Security 10.7.0 is supported on the following Windows platforms (32-bit and 64-bit): Workstations Windows 11 Windows 10 Servers Windows Server 2019 Windows Server 2016 Windows Server 2012/R2 McAfee Knowledgebase article KB82761 has the complete list of supported operating systems and environments. Getting the Software Go to the Software Download site. Click on Click here to login to the software download site. Login with your UH username and password, then click on Login. Fill in the number of computers you will be installing McAfee Endpoint Security on in the "Current # of Licenses" box. Patches and Hotfixes (if applicable): Click on the link on the Patches line. Select "Save file" and click OK. Click on the Download button. If you agree to the agreement terms, click the I agree button once. Save the file to your local hard drive. Click Logout. Documentation Installation instructions Trellix Endpoint Security 10.7.0 UH installer: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1797 For Assistance If you have problems with the software, please contact the ITS Help Desk for assistance.
