Question: Anti-Virus for macOS
Article Text: For Anti-Virus For Windows, go to https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1651 Who is Eligible? McAfee anti-virus software is licensed by the University of Hawaii (UH), Information Technology Services (ITS) site license for use by active UH faculty, staff, and students. Active UH faculty, staff, and students include any student taking a UH credit course, any faculty/staff currently employed by UH, and any faculty/staff currently employed by EWC/RCUH associated with UH. UH faculty, staff and students may install McAfee software for their UH-owned macOS computers (desktops and laptops), including computer labs on campus, and home computers (one license only). Upon termination of employment or student status at UH, all copies of McAfee software obtained through the University of Hawaii, Information Technology Services site license must be uninstalled. McAfee software can not be loaded on computers located outside the United States. Latest Version McAfee Endpoint Security for Mac 10.7.8 (macOS 11, 12.x) Supported Platforms macOS 11 and higher with at least 4 GB RAM Getting the Software Go to the Software Download site. Click on Click here to login to the software download site. Login with your UH username and password, then click on Login. Fill in the number of computers you will be installing McAfee Endpoint Security 10.7.8 on in the "Current # of Licenses" box. Click on the Download button. If you agree to the agreement terms, click the I agree button once. Save the file to your local hard drive. Click Logout. Uninstall Instructions For the uninstall instructions to work, you must be logged in on the Mac in an account with administrator privileges. Open a Finder window. (Click on the "Face" icon on the far left side of the Dock.) Click on the Go menu and select Utilities. Double-click on the Terminal icon. You will see the command prompt which includes the User ID for the account you are in and the "%" character (e.g. jdoe%). Type sudo /usr/local/McAfee/uninstall EPM (there is a space after “sudo”) and press the Return key. Enter the password for the account you are logged into (must be an administrator account) and press the Return key. Note: Nothing will be displayed in the Terminal window as you enter your password, and you cannot backspace. Type sudo /Library/McAfee/agent/scripts/uninstall.sh (there is a space after “sudo”) and press the Return key. If prompted, enter the password for the account you are logged into (must be an administrator account) and press the Return key. Note: Nothing will be displayed in the Terminal window as you enter your password, and you cannot backspace. If everything uninstalled successfully, click on the Terminal menu and select Quit Terminal. Restart your Macintosh. Installation Instructions McAfee Endpoint Security will be downloaded to your computer. **Uninstall previous McAfee versions or anti-virus software prior to installing** When the download is finished, there will be a McAfee-Endpoint-Security-for-Mac-10.x.x-RTW-standalone-xxx.dmg icon in whatever location you downloaded the file to. Double click on the McAfee-Endpoint-Security-for-Mac-10.x.x-RTW-standalone-xxx.dmg icon. A disk icon named McAfee-Endpoint-Security-for-Mac-10.x.x-RTW-standalone-xxx will then be mounted on your desktop. A window containing an icon named McAfee-Endpoint-Security-for-Mac-10.x.x-RTW-standalone-xxx.pkg will appear on your screen. Double click on the McAfee-Endpoint-Security-for-Mac-10.x.x-RTW-standalone-xxx.pkg icon. The next screen will state, "This package will run a program to determine if the software can be installed." Click on Continue. At the next screen, click Continue. You will be at the Read Me screen. Click Continue. You will be at the Software License Agreement screen. If you agree with the terms, click Continue. In the following window, click Agree. If the next window is a "Destination Select" window, make sure your hard drive is selected, then click Continue. Uncheck the options for Firewall and Web Control. Click Continue. In the next window, click the Install (it may also say Upgrade) button. You may be prompted for an administrator password. Enter an administrator username and password, and click Install Software. McAfee Endpoint Security will now be installed. When it is finished, you should see a message that the software was installed successfully. Click on Close. If you are asked if you want to keep the installer or move it to the trash, click on the Move to Trash button. Uninstall Firewall and Web Control packages If you accidentally installed the Firewall and/or Web Control packages, you can do the following steps to uninstall them. Open a Finder window. (Click on the "Face" icon on the far left side of the Dock.) Click on the Go menu and select Utilities. Double-click on the Terminal icon. You will see the command prompt which includes the User ID for the account you are in and the "%" character (e.g. jdoe%). Type the command which corresponds with the package that was installed: sudo /usr/local/McAfee/uninstall Firewall sudo /usr/local/McAfee/uninstall WebControl Press the Return key. A Warning about improper use of the sudo command will be displayed, then a prompt to enter the account password. Enter the password for the account you are logged into (must be an administrator account) and press the Return key. Note: Nothing will be displayed in the Terminal window as you enter the password, and you cannot backspace. If everything uninstalled successfully, click on the Terminal menu and select Quit Terminal. Restart your Macintosh. For Assistance If you need further assistance with McAfee Endpoint Security for Mac, please contact the ITS Help Desk for assistance.
