Question: UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Getting started with your first device
Article Text: Setting up a Smartphone Setting up a Landline Setting up a non-Smartphone Cellular Phone Setting up a Tablet For more information about UH Login and Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA), go to www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin. Before going through this article, please review UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Which authentication method should I use? to determine which authentication method suits your situation best. Once you have decided which method to use, use this document to register your first device. This document will explain how to register a mobile device, landline, or tablet as your first device to use for MFA. We strongly recommend registering at least 2 devices. For example: a smartphone and an office landline. Please refer to UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Managing Devices for information on managing registered devices, or UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Adding Devices for information on registering additional devices. Setting up a Smartphone Although the screenshots and instructions that follow are for an iPhone, the steps are the same for iPhones and Android phones, except for identifying the type of smartphone. Watch video Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. You will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button. Select Mobile phone, then click Continue. If necessary, select the country of your phone. Type your phone number, including area code (no parentheses or dashes are needed). Double check that the correct phone number is shown immediately beneath the box. If so, check the box next to the phone number. Click on Continue. Select the type of smartphone (in this case iPhone), then click Continue. If you have downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your phone, go to the next step. If you have not yet downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your phone, follow the directions within the box to download. You can also visit one of the following links from your smartphone (not your computer): iOS: Duo Mobile for iOS Android: Duo Mobile for Android [Note: to download from the Google Play Store, you need to be logged in with a gmail.com account or enrolled in Consumer Apps.] Once you have downloaded the app to your phone, or if you already have the app downloaded to your phone, click on I have Duo Mobile installed. You will see a barcode displayed. Open the Duo Mobile app on your phone. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to send Notifications, please allow notifications. Press the + icon in the upper right corner, or press on the Add Account button. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to access the Camera, please allow access. Point your phone's camera (the camera's display should be shown on the phone's screen) at the barcode. Once the barcode is properly within the display, it will automatically be recognized. You can tell it was successful if you see a green checkmark within the barcode. Once you see the green checkmark, click on Continue. At the next screen, you should see a green Saved button in the lower left. The When I log in option should be set to Ask me to choose an authentication method. Click on the Continue to Login button. If you were registering your device through the UH Login MFA Device Registration site, at the bottom of the next screen, you should see the message Enrollment successful!... This means that you have successfully registered your smartphone. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. For further information on the Duo Mobile app, please refer to Duo's guides: iPhone: https://guide.duo.com/iphone Android: https://guide.duo.com/android Setting up a Landline Watch video Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. You will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button. Select Landline, then click Continue. If necessary, select the country of your phone. Type your phone number, including area code (no parentheses or dashes are needed). If you have an extension, type it in the Extension: box. Double check that the correct phone number is shown immediately beneath the box. If so, check the box next to the phone number. Scroll down, and click on Continue. At the next screen, you should see a green Saved button in the lower left. The When I log in option should be set to Ask me to choose an authentication method. Click on the Continue to Login button. If you were registering your device through the UH Login MFA Device Registration site, you should see the message Enrollment successful!... This means that you have successfully registered your landline. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Setting up a non-Smartphone Cellular Phone Watch video Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. You will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button. Select Mobile phone, then click Continue. If necessary, select the country of your phone. Type your phone number, including area code (no parentheses or dashes are needed). Double check that the correct phone number is shown immediately beneath the box. If so, check the box next to the phone number. Scroll down, and click on Continue. Select Other as the type of phone, then click Continue. At the next screen, you should see a green Saved button in the lower left. The When I log in option should be set to Ask me to choose an authentication method. Click on the Continue to Login button. If you were registering your device through the UH Login MFA Device Registration site, you should see the message Enrollment successful!... This means that you have successfully registered your non-smartphone cellular phone. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Setting up a Tablet Although the screenshots and instructions that follow are for an iPad, the steps are the same for Android tablets. Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. You will see the following screen. Click on the Start setup button. Select Tablet, then click Continue. Select the type of tablet. In this example, we will select iOS. Click Continue. If you have downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your tablet, go to the next step. If you have not yet downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your tablet, follow the directions within the box to download. You can also visit one of the following links from your tablet (not your computer): iOS: Duo Mobile for iOS Android: Duo Mobile for Android [Note: to download from the Android Play Store, you need to be enrolled in Consumer Apps or logged in with a gmail.com account.] You will see a barcode displayed. Open the Duo Mobile app on your tablet. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to send Notifications, please allow notifications. Press the + icon in the upper right corner, or press on the Add Account button. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to access the Camera, please allow access. Point your tablet's camera (the camera's display should be shown on the phone's screen) at the barcode. Once the barcode is properly within the display, it will automatically be recognized. You can tell it was successful if you see a green checkmark within the barcode. Once you see the green checkmark, click on Continue. At the next screen, you should see a green Saved button in the lower left. The When I log in option should be set to Ask me to choose an authentication method. Click on the Continue to Login button. If you were registering your device through the UH Login MFA Device Registration site, at the bottom of the next screen, you should see the message Enrollment successful!... This means that you have successfully registered your tablet. You can now logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site.
