Question: UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Managing Devices
Article Text: My Settings & Devices screen Changing the default device Changing a device name Deleting a device Reactivating the Duo Mobile app (does not apply to landlines) My Settings & Devices screen To manage your Duo devices, you need to go to the My Settings & Devices screen. Login to the UH Login MFA Device Registration site at www.hawaii.edu/its/uhlogin/device-reg. You will see the following screen. Click on My Settings & Devices (located on the left side, under the gold seal). You will then be asked to authenticate with your second factor again. Click on the appropriate button to proceed. You will now be at the My Settings & Devices screen. You will see a list of your registered devices. This screenshot shows a sample of one registered device: This screenshot shows a sample of multiple registered devices: Changing the default device You can only change the default device if you have more than one device setup. Go to the the My Settings & Devices screen as described in the My Settings & Devices screen section. If necessary, scroll down. Under Default Device, click on the down arrow, then select the device you wish to be the default. Note: the When I login option should remain Ask me to choose an authentication method. If necessary, scroll down. Click on the Save button. When the change has been saved, the Save button will change to a Saved button. If you are done with managing your devices, you can logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Changing a device name Go to the the My Settings & Devices screen as described in the My Settings & Devices screen section. Click on the Device Options button that's on the same line as the device whose name you wish to change. The screen will now look like the one below. Click on the Change Device Name button. In the box that appears, type a new name for your device. Click on the Save button. To cancel the change, click on the X button. You will see a message that you have successfully modified the device name. If you are done with managing your devices, you can logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Deleting a device Go to the the My Settings & Devices screen as described in the My Settings & Devices screen section. Click on the Device Options button that's on the same line as the device you wish to delete. The screen will now look like the one below. Click on the Trash Can icon. You will be asked if you're sure you want to remove the device. If you are sure, click on the Remove button; otherwise, click on Cancel. You will see a message that you have successfully removed the device. If you are done with managing your devices, you can logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site. Reactivating the Duo Mobile app (does not apply to landlines) If you have a new phone but have the same phone number, you need to "reactivate" the Duo Mobile app on your new phone. (If you have a new phone AND a new phone number, activate the new phone as a new device.) Go to the the My Settings & Devices screen as described in the My Settings & Devices screen section. For Step 3, click on the Call Me button. Your phone will ring. Answer the call and press "1" on the keypad to approve the login and proceed. Click on the Device Options button that's on the same line as the device you wish to reactivate. The screen will now look like the one below. Click on the Reactivate Duo Mobile button. Select the appropriate phone type for the new phone, then click Continue. Below is the next screen you will see if you picked iPhone in step 5 (if you picked Android the remaining steps are similar). If you have not yet downloaded the Duo Mobile app to your new phone, follow the directions within the box to download and install the app. Once you have downloaded the app to your new phone, or if you already have the app downloaded to your new phone, click on I have Duo Mobile installed. You will see a barcode displayed. Open the Duo Mobile app on your phone. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to send Notifications, please allow notifications. Press the + icon in the upper right corner, or press on the Add Account button. If you are asked if you want to allow Duo Mobile to access the Camera, please allow access. Point your phone's camera (the camera's display should be shown on the phone's screen) at the barcode. Once the barcode is properly within the display, it will automatically be recognized. You can tell it was successful if you see a green checkmark within the barcode. Once you see the green checkmark, click on Continue. You have now activated the Duo Mobile app on your new phone. If you are done with managing your devices, you can logout of the UH Login MFA Device Registration site.
