Question: UH Alert/Broadcast Service for RCUH Employees
Article Text: If you are a RCUH employee and interested in receiving emergency/broadcast alert messages from the University of Hawai‘i please go to www.hawaii.edu/alert/. Please note, this link will provide you step by step instructions on how to sign up for both email and text emergency alerts affecting the various UH Campuses if you have a UH username and password. UH Alert Emergency Notification The UH Alert emergency notification system alerts the university community in the event of a natural, health or civil emergency. The information you provide will only be used in the event of an emergency that impacts the health and safety of the UH community or closures of whole campuses. It will not be shared with others or used for routine UH communications or announcements. Information about UH Alert Automated emergency messaging options include: Email Your @hawaii.edu email address is automatically subscribed to UH Broadcast, which sends out email for administrative and health and safety alerts. Please note, this does not apply to users with email address like specificschool.hawaii.edu. SMS /text messages Alerts can be sent via text message to student, faculty and staff mobile phones. UH Alert Sign Up Instructions Login with your UH username and password. Tell us the campus(es) or geographic location(s) about which you want to be alerted. Submit your cell phone number. Click "Save Changes" at the end of the form. That‘s it! You may opt-out or change your information at any time. If you have problems/question regarding UH Alert, please review the UH Alert Troubleshooting article here: http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1363 UH Broadcast notifications for RCUH staff UH Broadcast is used for announcements, traffic warnings, construction notices, power outages, burglaries, etc. Principal Investigators, Project Staff, and RCUH employees who are interested in receiving UH Broadcast email notifications can voluntarily subscribe by: Sending an email to: listserv@lists.hawaii.edu with the following text in the body of the email: Subscribe ANNOUNCE-<campus>-RCUH-STAFF yourFirstName yourLastName Example email body with changes in Red: Subscribe ANNOUNCE-UHM-RCUH-STAFF Jane Doe The various campuses available are: UHM System UHWO UHH Kapiolani Leeward Honolulu Windward Maui Kauai Hawaii If you would like to unsubscribe from receiving UH Broadcasts send email to listserv@lists.hawaii.edu with the following text in the body of the email: unsubscribe ANNOUNCE-<campus>-RCUH-STAFF If you have any questions, please email Taylor Sumi at tsumi@rcuh.com or Stacie Kondo at skondo@rcuh.com.
