Question: Virtual Server: How to reset your Active Directory Password
Article Text: You have been given an AD account with a temporary password. This is different from your UH Password. To reset the password, please follow the steps below. If you are having trouble with resetting the password, please email itscs@hawaii.edu for assistance. Please follow the instructions below for either Windows or Mac computers. NOTE: The purpose of this server is for PASSWORD CHANGES ONLY. You must also be on a computer connected to the UH network to be able to remotely access this. Please also make sure you are currently NOT signed in to a remote session before following the instructions. Password complexity requirements: Must be at least 8 characters long At least one uppercase character (A through Z) At least one lowercase character (a through z) At least one numeric character (0 through 9) Non-alphabetic special characters (for example, !, $, #, %) Cannot be the same as the previous five (5) passwords Please DO NOT use your's or another person's personal information (phone number, date of birth, social security, etc.) as the password Please refrain from using common words as passwords Additiional best practices can be viewed here: Cyber Hygiene Best Practices On Windows Desktops (Windows 8 and 10) 1. Search for the Remote Desktop Connection application and enter adreset.its.hawaii.edu in the "Computer" field. For username, enter "hawaii\<username>" where <username> is your UH username. 2. At the password prompt, enter the temporary password that was given to you. There will also be a notice about the certificate, but click YES to proceed. 3. When you see the desktop, press Ctrl+Alt+End to see the password change menu. Note: If you are on a laptop, you may need to press a “Function” or “Fn” key to get to the “End” key, as seen below. Note: If Ctrl+Alt+End is not correctly pressed, you may end up with a screen that tries to change the local account's password, and that WILL NOT WORK. 4. Click on “Change a password” in the menu that pops up 5. Enter your current password in the “Old password” field, and then enter a new password twice. Click on the right arrow button to confirm. Note: If using a Windows desktop, entering the wrong key combinations may take you to the password changing screen on your local computer. You will know you are changing the correct password if it has HAWAII\ in front of the username, like in the screen below. The password change process may take a minute. Please do not close the remote desktop session until it completes. 6. Click the Ok button. 7. Click the Start Menu button in the lower right corner > Profile icon > Sign out to sign out of the session. On macOS: You will need to download the Microsoft Remote Desktop app from the App Store: apps.apple.com/us/app/microsoft-remote-desktop/id1295203466 1. Click the "New" plus button and “Add PC”. 2. Enter adreset.its.hawaii.edu as the PC name. 3. Select the “User Account” drop-down, and click on “Add an account”. Enter your login credentials, which will be hawaii\<your UH username> and the temporary password that was given to you, then click on “Add”. NOTE: You must be on a computer connected to the UH network to be able to remotely access this. 4. To log in, double click on the newly-added PC. 5. When the desktop loads, press the following key combination: For all Mac portables: CONTROL + OPTION + FN + DELETE For compact external keyboards: CONTROL + OPTION + FN + DELETE For extended external keyboards: CONTROL + OPTION + DELETE 6. Click on “Change a password” when it pops up. 7. Enter your current password in the “Old password” field, and then enter a new password twice. Click on the right arrow button to confirm. The password change process may take a minute. Please do not close the remote desktop session until it completes. 8. Click the Ok button. 9. Click the Start Menu button in the lower right corner > Profile icon > Sign out to sign out of the session.
