Question: Blocking Cookies in Web Browsers
Article Text: A cookie is a small piece of data downloaded and stored on your computer when you visit a webpage that uses them. This article explains how to turn off this behavior. Keep in mind that cookies have legitimate uses and may be required to be on by websites needed for legitimate UH business. Macintosh Firefox Go to the "Firefox" menu and select Preferences On the left side, click on Privacy On the right side, under the "History" section, change the "Firefox will" option to Use custom settings for history. Uncheck the box for "Accept cookies from sites" If you want to block most cookies, but allow cookies from certain websites: Click on the Exceptions button In the "Address of website" box, type the URL of the website Click on Allow, then click on Save Changes Chrome Go to the "Chrome" menu and select Preferences Scroll down to the bottom, then click on Show advanced settings Under the Privacy section, click on the Content Settings button Select the choice for Block sites from setting any data Click on Done If you want to block most cookies, but allow cookies from certain websites: While still in the "Content Settings" window, click on the Manage exceptions button. In the "Hostname pattern" box, enter the website's URL in this format: [*].domain.xxx For example, if you want to allow hawaii.edu sites, enter [*].hawaii.edu Under the "Behavior" column, make sure it's on Allow. Click on Done. Click on Done again to exit the Content Settings window. Safari Go to the "Safari" menu and select Preferences Click on the Privacy icon Under the "Cookies and website data" option, select Always block Close the Preferences window by clicking on the red dot in the upper left Safari does not allow exceptions to cookie blocking. Windows Firefox Near the upper right corner of the window, click on the icon that looks like three horizontal lines, then click on Options. On the left side, click on Privacy On the right side, under the "History" section, change the "Firefox will" option to Use custom settings for history. Uncheck the box for "Accept cookies from sites" If you want to block most cookies, but allow cookies from certain websites: Click on the Exceptions button In the "Address of website" box, type the URL of the website Click on Allow, then click on Save Changes Chrome Near the upper right corner of the window, click on the icon that looks like three dots lined up vertically, then select Settings. Scroll down to the bottom, then click on Show advanced settings Under the "Privacy" section, click on the Content Settings button Select the choice for Block sites from setting any data Click on Done If you want to block most cookies, but allow cookies from certain websites: While still in the "Content Settings" window, click on the Manage exceptions button. In the "Hostname pattern" box, enter the website's URL in this format: [*].domain.xxx For example, if you want to allow hawaii.edu sites, enter [*].hawaii.edu Under the "Behavior" column, make sure it's on Allow. Click on Done. Click on Done again to exit the Content Settings window. Internet Explorer Near the upper right corner of the window, click on the icon that looks like a "gear wheel", then select Internet options. Click on the Privacy tab, then click on the Advanced button. Under both the "First-party Cookies" and "Third-party Cookies" columns, select Block. Uncheck the box for "Always allow session cookies". Click on OK. Click on OK to exit the Internet Options window. If you want to block most cookies, but allow cookies from certain websites: While still in the Internet Options window under the "Privacy" tab, click on the Sites button. In the "Address of website" box, type the website address you wish to allow, then click on Allow. Click on OK. Click on OK to exit the Internet Options window. Edge Near the upper right corner of the window, click on the icon that looks like three dots in a horizontal line, then select Settings. Scroll down, and click on View advanced settings Scroll down, and under the "Cookies" option, select Block all cookies. To exit, click on the "three dots in a horizontal line" icon again. Edge does not allow exceptions to cookie blocking.
