Question: FileZilla for Windows
Article Text: Overview FileZilla Client is a fast and reliable cross-platform FTP, FTPS and SFTP client with lots of useful features and an intuitive graphical user interface. For more information, refer to http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1740 Quick Links Installation Setup with Quickconnect Setup with Site Manager Installation Download the installer at https://www.hawaii.edu/itsdocs/sftpclients/FileZilla_3.41.2_win64-setup.exe Double click or run the installer file FileZilla_3.41.2_win64-setup.exe. (If prompted to allow the app to make changes to your device, click on Yes.) On the License Agreement, review and click on 'I Agree' to continue. Select your preference of 'Anyone who uses this computer' or 'Only for me' then click on 'Next'. On the Choose Components screen, leave the defaults (select 'Desktop Icon' if desired) and click 'Next'. Choose the destination folder for installation and click on 'Next'. Choose the location of the Start Menu folder and click on 'Install'. Click on 'Finish' to complete the installation. Setup with Quickconnect Run Filezilla In the top toolbar, type in the following information: Host = uhunix.hawaii.edu Username = your UH username Password = your UH password Port = 22 Click Quickconnect Choose if you would like your password saved and click on 'OK' to continue. Click OK for the Unknown host key prompt to continue. Once you are connected, you should see a window similar to below. The left pane of the window represents the local directory structure for your Windows PC. The right pane represents the directory structure of the remote host. In this case, the remote host is uhunix.hawaii.edu. To download a file, select the file in the right pane and drag them to the left pane. To upload a file, select the file from the left pane and drag them to the right pane. You may copy files to folders by dragging the files onto the folder. To select files not adjacent to each other, hold down the Command key and click on the name of the files. Setup with Site Manager The Site Manager allows FileZilla client users to store information about their sFTP sites. You can access the Site Manager under the File menu, by clicking on the Site Manager icon on the toolbar, or you can press Ctrl+S. Click the New Site button. Name your site to differentiate if adding more than one host and enter the following information: Host = uhunix.hawaii.edu Port = 22 Protocol = SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol Logon Type = Normal (if you want to save your password), or Ask for password (if you want to be prompted to enter your password) Username = your UH username Password = your UH password If you would like FileZilla to remember your password until the application is closed, select the option. Enter your password and click ok. Click OK for the Unknown host key prompt to continue. Once you are connected, you should see a window similar to below.
