Question: Getting Started with the Personal Information Survey
Article Text: This article will provide a walkthrough for adding and editing/viewing existing Personal Information Surveys. For a more in-depth completion guide, please click here. Adding a new Survey To add a new Survey, please follow these steps: Visit https://www.hawaii.edu/its/information/survey/ Click on "My Surveys" in the navigation bar. You will be directed to the UH login page. Please log in with your UH username and password. To add a new survey, you'll start with completing the Contact Information section. Please note that the System Custodian is the one responsible for the contents and maintenance of the Personal Information system. This person will have access to read and modify the survey. The System Custodian can be different from the person filling out the survey. In such cases, both the Custodian and the person who filled out the survey will have access to the survey. Next, you will need to complete the Qualification Questions section. Note: If you answer no to both question 1 & 2, you can stop here. The Personal Information Survey only needs to be completed by those who collect information in identifiable form on UH employees or students/general public. Finally, please go through each of the questions in the System Assessment and Use of Third-Party Website or Application sections. Questions marked with a red * icon are required to be answered. Once you get to the end of the survey, click the "Submit Survey" icon to complete the 2022 Personal Information Survey. If there are any required questions you haven't answered an error message will appear. These questions will be highlighted for completion. Edit or View and Existing Survey To edit or view an existing survey, follow these steps: Return to the "My Surveys" page at https://www.hawaii.edu/its/information/survey/. Here you will find your existing surveys listed. To edit your answers for a survey, click on the name of the Survey, located under the "Survey Name" column. If you'd like to remove a survey, click on the "remove" button. Once you complete the survey, please click the "Update Survey" option. To get printer-friendly reports of your submitted surveys, click on "Reports" in the navigation bar. Click on the "Printer Friendly Survey Printouts" link to get the report.
