Question: Getting Started with Device Registration
Article Text: This article will provide a walkthrough for filling out the Device Registration. If you have any questions, please contact infosec@hawaii.edu. In this article: Creating a new Device Registration Editing an Existing Registration Creating a New Device Registration Visit https://www.hawaii.edu/its/device/registration/ Click on "Registration Console" in the navigation bar. You will be directed to the UH Login page. Log in using your UH username and password. To register a device, click on the "Add device to list" button Select the device you would like to add, then hit "Add". Fill out the required information, then hit "Register". Server registration interface Endpoint registration interface You will be directed to another page where you will add additional information. To update or add an answer, click on the pencil icon. Fill in all fields that are marked with a red flag. Your survey will not be considered completed if there are any red flags. Complete the Agreement terms at the bottom of the page for your device type, then click "I Agree" If you indicate that your server maintains PII (SSNs, Driver's Licenses, State ID Numbers, or Financial Account Information), you must also complete the Information Survey, located at https://www.hawaii.edu/its/information/survey/ You must also Scan your server for PII and Vulnerabilities. Visit https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1297 to get started with PII scanning with Spirion. Visit https://scanuh.hawaii.edu/ to get started with Vulnerability scanning with ScanUH. After obtaining the ScanUH scan report, remediate any critical vulnerabilities found before updating the Remediation Information and Vulnerabilities Agreement Terms. Only when you have entered a valid date for the Vulnerability and PII scans will you be able to check the agreement boxes. Editing an Existing Registration To edit an existing report, follow the steps below: Return to the "Registration Console" by clicking on the link in the left, vertical navigation bar. Select which device type you would like to view by clicking the "View type" dropdown menu In the table called "My Registered/Managed Devices", click on the ID of the report you want to edit. If you scanned multiple registered servers and would like to update the scan dates all at once, start by checking off all the servers that you want updated. Input the dates of the scans in the "Bulk Updates for Last Scanned Dates" section, then press the "Update selected registries" button.
