Question: UH Login Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA) - Logging in with MFA
Article Text: This article explains how to login through the UH Login page using the different MFA methods. Please note that ITS strongly recommends that you setup at least two devices for MFA. Duo Push (smartphone, tablet) Phone call (mobile phone) SMS text codes (mobile phone) Duo App-generated code (smartphone, tablet) Landline UH Hard Token (Yubikey) Duo Push (smartphone, tablet) At the Duo MFA window, make sure your mobile phone or tablet is selected under the "Device" drop down menu. Optionally, you can select the Remember me for 7 days option. If you select this option, you will not see the Duo MFA window for 7 days. Click on the Send Me a Push button. A notification will appear on your smartphone. iPhone: Press and hold on the notification, then tap on Approve to approve or Deny if it was a fraudulent request. If necessary enter your iPhone's passcode. Android: Tap on Notifications. You may have to unlock your phone. Tap on Approve to approve or Deny if it was a fraudulent request. For further information on the Duo Mobile app, please refer to Duo's guides: iPhone: https://guide.duo.com/iphone Android: https://guide.duo.com/android Phone call (mobile phone) At the Duo MFA window, make sure your mobile phone is selected under "Devices". Optionally, you can select the Remember me for 7 days option. If you select this option, you will not see the Duo MFA window for 7 days. Click on the Call Me button. A phone call will be placed to your mobile phone. Answer the call, then press 1 on the mobile phone's keypad to approve or press 9 to report a fraudulent request. SMS text codes (mobile phone) At the Duo MFA window, make sure your mobile phone is selected under "Devices". Optionally, you can select the Remember me for 7 days option. If you select this option, you will not see the Duo MFA window for 7 days. Click on the Enter a Passcode button. If this is your first time logging in, or if you need a new set of text codes, click on Text me new codes. A set of 10 codes will be texted to your mobile phone. Enter the first code (it should begin with the number 1) in the box, then click on Log In. The next time you login, you can enter the next code in the sequence (e.g. the one starting with the number 2) to login. However, you can always click on Text me new codes to get a new set of codes. Duo App-generated code (smartphone, tablet) The Duo App will generate codes even if the smartphone or tablet does not have wifi or cellular data service. At the Duo MFA window, make sure your smartphone or tablet is selected under "Devices". Optionally, you can select the Remember me for 1 day option. If you select this option, you will not see the Duo MFA window for 7 days. Click on the Enter a Passcode button. Open the Duo Mobile app on your smartphone or tablet. Select "Show" next to the hidden passcode for "University of Hawaii". A code will display. The code will remain valid until it is used. If you have the newer version of the Duo Mobile app, you can tap on the "circular arrows" icon to get a new code. Enter the displayed code into the box, then click on Log In. Landline At the Duo MFA window, make sure your landline (e.g office) number is selected under "Devices". Optionally, you can select the Remember me for 7 days option. If you select this option, you will not see the Duo MFA window for 7 days. Click on the Call Me button. A phone call will be placed to your designated landline phone. Answer the call, then press 1 on the Landline's keypad to approve or press 9 to report a fraudulent request. UH Hard Token (Yubikey) The UH hard token is a usb device that you would insert into your computer's usb port. You would then "touch" the gold area of the hard token to authenticate. UH hard tokens can be purchased through the ITS Site License office. Please visit www.hawaii.edu/sitelic/tokens. Both USB A and USB C hard tokens are available. Insert the hard token into your computer's USB port prior to any login attempts. Note for Macintosh users: the first time you insert a hard token into a Macintosh, you may be told, "Your keyboard is unrecognizable" or "Your keyboard cannot be identified". This message can be ignored; close the window by clicking on the red dot in the upper left. When you get to the Duo MFA window, make sure either your mobile phone, tablet, or "Token" is selected under "Device". Optionally, you can select the Remember me for 7 days option. If you select this option, you will not see the Duo MFA window for 7 days. Click on the Enter a Passcode button. If you have the USB A hard token, make sure you see the green light flashing on the "Y" in the gold circle. For either hard token, press down on the token's gold area with any finger (see below for where to press). USB A hard token USB C hard token A (long) code will automatically be entered into the box, and the "Login" button will automatically be pressed, and you should now be logged in.
