Question: UH Student Account Information
Article Text: Creating Your UH Account You may request your UH Username online from the UH Username Management page by clicking on the "Get a UH Username!" link. Your UH Username should be ready within six minutes. Most services, such as MyUH, will be available to you once your UH Username is created. Your UH Email (@hawaii.edu) will be available for use after 15 minutes. You will need to provide the following information to apply for a UH Account: Your legal name (the name that appears on your student application) UH Number or Social Security Number Date of birth Read and agree to the Executive Policy E2.210 and Chapter708, Hawaii Revised Status After you have completed the form, use the Continue button to submit your request. The online request system will check the UH Username Management database for your full legal name and the information above. If your information is found within the UH Username Management database, you will be asked to create a UH Username. The following are rules that constitute a valid UH Username: A UH Username will be based on the user's legal name as it appears in the University of Hawai'i record. A UH Username will not contain sensitive personal information including the social security number, or date of birth in part or in whole. A UH Username will be at least 2 characters and at most 8 characters in length. A UH Username will only consist of number and letter characters, and no special characters. A UH Username will start with a letter. A UH Username will not have the numbers 1, 5, or 0 after letter characters to prevent mistaking those numbers for the letters L, S, or O. Once you create a username, you will also be asked to create a password, and select two questions which you must provide answers for. In the future, these two questions will allow you to reset your password online. Your password is very important and should not be taken lightly. Please remember that your password should be something that you will remember but others cannot guess. Password Tips Your password must be 8-32 characters long You must use at least one uppercase alphabetic character, one lowercase alphabetic character, one numeric character, and one special character Make it a habit to change your password frequently Choose a password that is hard to guess. Do not use dictionary words, birth dates, or names Make sure your password has nothing to do with the two questions and answers you provided when you initially set your password Memorize your password and do not share it with anyone Treat your password as you would treat any important confidential information about yourself Troubleshooting Account Creation While the online request system should be able to activate your UH Username, there are situations in which the system cannot fulfill your request. The most common error that users run into is “We are unable to find a good match for your information.” This error usually occurs if the UH Username Management Database has not yet been updated with your information, or if there is a discrepancy in the record on file. Be sure to input your personal information as it appears on your student application or acceptance letter, and if you notice a discrepancy, please contact your home campus’ records office to update your record on file. If you are still having trouble creating your account or encounter a different error, feel free to call the ITS Help Desk at (808) 956-8883 or toll-free from neighbor islands at (800) 558-2669 for assistance. Resetting Your Password Online Password Reset If you remember your password but would like to change it, visit the UH Account Management page and select the One-Step Password Change link. You will be asked to input your old password and then a new password of your choice twice. If your new password meets our password requirements, your request should be processed and ready to use. If you do not remember your password or it is not working, you may be able to set a new password over the Web. When your UH Username was activated, you were asked to select two questions and provide the answers to these two questions. If you know the answer to these two questions, you may visit the UH Account Management page and select the Forgot Your Password link to set a new password. The new password could take up to 5 minutes before it is ready to be used. In Person Password Reset If you do not remember your password and the answer to the two questions, you will need to visit a campus representative and show an official government issued photo ID. The new password could take up to 5 minutes before it is ready to be used. Student out-of-state, abroad, or those with medical hardships If you cannot reset your password online, and you are not able to visit a campus representative in person, you may File Drop a request for a password reset. The request must include the following information: Full name (first, middle, last) UH Username UH Number or last four digits of SSN Month/day of date of birth (MM/DD) Your telephone number Your ticket number (contact the ITS Help Desk if you do not have a ticket number) A copy of your government issued photo ID Please File Drop the request to the ITS Help Desk at help@hawaii.edu. After your documents have been verified, ITS personnel will call you with the new password. File Drop Video Tutorial File Drop Procedures Visit https://www.hawaii.edu/filedrop and enter your name and email address in the "Non-UH Users" section (as you cannot log into the UH Users section if you've forgotten your password). Enter help@hawaii.edu as the recipient. Check Require authentication; it is unchecked by default. In the comment section, include your name, reason for the request, and ticket number (contact the ITS Help Desk if you do not have a ticket number). The comment/description section should NOT include any personal identifying information such as UH number and MM/DD of date of birth. Click Proceed. Click Choose File, and navigate to the document you created containing the required information (listed above). If not included in the previous document, include a second file containing a scan/picture of your government issued photo ID. Click Start Upload. Additional Assistance If you have any questions, or run into any problems regarding your UH Account, feel free to call the ITS Help Desk at (808) 956-8883 or toll-free from neighbor islands at (800) 558-2669 for assistance. This article is part of the UH Account Information article.
