Question: UH 'Ohana Account Information
Article Text: Online Services for 'Ohana ‘Ohana is Hawaiian for "extended family" and is very inclusive. At the University of Hawaii, ‘Ohana refers to the group of individuals consisting of alumni, former faculty or staff, and former University department affiliates who were assigned a UH Username but no longer have an active affiliation with the University. The initial services available for ‘Ohana include: Password Administration -- Password administration includes management of your secret questions and answer. You can fall back on these if they are wisely chosen to allow you to recover from losing/forgetting your password. Google@UH Services (Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Sites, Groups) -- You can continue to access Google@UH, even after your active association with the University has ended. This includes the continued availability of all data stored in Google@UH services, such as email messages and folders in Google@UH Gmail, data in Google@UH Drive, and sites in Google@UH Sites. POP and IMAP access to Google@UH Gmail will also continue. STAR -- The University STAR academic advising service allows most alumni to create information transcripts. Note that for official transcripts you still must contact the Registrar's Office. SECE (only for students who earned a degree from UH) -- The Student Employment website now lists full-time jobs, which are available to recent UH graduates. MyUH -- This academic portal contains links to many UH online services. ‘Ohana enrollment must be renewed annually. You will be sent a series of email reminders in advance of the annual renewal date. Regretfully, should you not renew on time, we will be unable to reestablish your 'Ohana credentials (username and password) and associated services. Any data associated with your UH Username that you manage/maintain yourself, including email, contacts, documents, and websites, will no longer be available. Furthermore, 'Ohana users who exceed their 7.5GB Google@UH quota may have their UH Usernames disabled. This will result in the loss of access to associated online services for 'Ohana and the loss of all data stored within their Google@UH account (including emails stored in Gmail, documents stored in Drive, calendar and contact data, etc.). See https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1891 for more information on the Google@UH storage policy for 'Ohana and for help with managing your storage. Individuals are reminded that the use of UH Usernames, and available services accessed through UH Usernames, as ‘Ohana continues to be governed by applicable UH policies and State laws, including UH Executive Policy E2.210 and Chapter 708, Hawaii Revised Statutes. Resources Enrolling in ‘Ohana online services http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1137 'Ohana Google@UH Storage Policy and Quotas: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1891 Password Administration: http://www.hawaii.edu/username Saving Email and Personal Webpages (Mac OS X): http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/977 Saving Email and Personal Webpages (Windows): http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/978 STAR: https://www.star.hawaii.edu/ SECE: http://sece.its.hawaii.edu/sece MyUH: http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1659 Resetting Your Password Online Password Reset If you remember your password but would like to change it, visit the UH Account Management page and select the One-Step Password Change link. You will be asked to input your old password and then a new password of your choice twice. If your new password meets our password requirements, your request should be processed and ready to use. By File Drop If you do not remember your password or it is not working, you may be able to set a new password over the Web. When your UH Username was activated, you were asked to select two questions and provide the answers to these two questions. If you know the answer to these two questions, you may visit the UH Account Management page and select the Forgot Your Password link to set a new password. The new password could take up to 5 minutes before it is ready to be used. If you cannot reset your password online, you may file drop a request for a password reset. The request must include the following information: Full name (first, middle, last) UH Username UH Number or last four digits of SSN Month/day of date of birth (MM/DD) Your telephone number Your ticket number (contact the ITS Help Desk if you do not have a ticket number) A copy of your government issued photo ID Please file drop the request to help@hawaii.edu. After your documents have been verified, ITS personnel will call you with the new password. File Drop Video Tutorial File Drop Procedures Visit https://www.hawaii.edu/filedrop and enter your name and email address in the "Non-UH Users" section (as you cannot log into the UH Users section if you've forgotten your password). Enter help@hawaii.edu as the recipient. Check Require authentication; it is unchecked by default. In the comment section, include your name, reason for the request, and ticket number (contact the ITS Help Desk if you do not have a ticket number). The comment/description section should NOT include any personal identifying information such as UH number and MM/DD of date of birth. Click Proceed. Click Choose File, and navigate to the document you created containing the required information (listed above). If not included in the previous document, include a second file containing a scan/picture of your government issued photo ID. Click Start Upload. Additional Assitance If you have any questions, or run into any problems regarding your UH Account, feel free to call the ITS Help Desk at (808) 956-8883 or toll-free from neighbor islands at (800) 558-2669 for assistance. This article is part of the UH Account Information article.
