Question: UH Account Requirements
Article Text: Account Eligibility Username Rules and Guidlines Account Eligibility You must be a faculty, staff, or registered student with University of Hawai'i to obtain a UH Username. Emerti faculty and UH affiliates are also allowed. Your UH Username is your account for the duration of your career at the University of Hawai'i. Please review the table below for examples of eligibility. Email Account Type Duration of the Account Where We Get the Information Registered Student Until graduation Student Information System Faculty/Staff Until termination of employment Office of Human Resources Emeriti Perpetual, renewable annually by email reminder message President's Office Affiliate One year, annually renewable upon request Dean or Director Departmental Account One year, annually renewable upon request Dean or Director Registered Independent Organizational (RIO) Account One year, annually renewable upon request Campus Center UH Usernames, and services accessed through UH Usernames, are governed by applicable UH policies and State laws, including UH Executive Policy E2.210 and Chapter 708, Hawaii Revised Statutes. Note for Non-Credit students: Due to the non-automatic creation of UH Usernames for non-credit students, there will be a nominal assessed fee to create accounts for programs that want their students to have a UH Username for email or access privileges. Previously, ITS was absorbing the costs, but regrettably now needs to pass on the costs. Fee is set at $10 per UH Username per academic semester (or equivalent time period). For additional questions, please call the ITS Help Desk, (808) 956-8883 on Oahu or toll free (800) 558-2669 from neighbor islands, and ask to escalate to a staff member. Username Rules and Guidelines UH Usernames are used for many University of Hawai'i services including UH Email. This should be kept in mind when creating the account. The following are rules that constitute a valid UH Username including Departmental and Registered Independent Organizational (RIO) accounts: A UH Username will be at least 2 characters and at most 8 characters in length, with at least 2 letter characters. A UH Username will only consist of number and letter characters, and no special characters. A UH Username will start with a letter character. A UH Username will not have the numbers 1, 5, or 0 after letter characters to prevent mistaking those numbers for the letters L, S, or O. A UH Username will not have numbers between letter characters. The rules above are in place for all UH Usernames and must be adhered to. The following rules listed are primarily in place for individual accounts: A UH Username will be based on the user's legal name as it appears in the University of Hawai'i record. A UH Username will not contain sensitive personal information including the social security number, or date of birth in part or in whole.
