Question: Spirion for Windows: Recommended Configuration Settings
Article Text: Recommended Configuration Spirion Settings Open Spirion, and enter in your password If Prompted, open the Advanced Interface Click on the Configuration tab on the top bar then Settings. AnyFind Options to automatically find Social Security Numbers Uncheck Only when location contains keyword File Types Include the following types of Files when searching NOTE: This could have an impact on performance Search these file types dropdown, select All NOTE: If you encounter problematic filetypes, you could select Custom instead. You will see a Manage button where you can deselect problematic file types. Options for searching Files Check Include mapped network drives when searching 'My Computer' Check Allow searching of file systems not fully supported by Windows Check Display a warning when unsupported file systems are detected Optional Configuration Custom Folders Use this setting if you would like to scan specific folders, instead of your entire computer. This is useful for external drives, file shares, or encrypted containers. Click on ... next to the Folder: text box In the Browse for Folder Window, select the location or directory you would like to include. Click Ok The directory path should appear in the Folder: text box. Click Add The directory path should appear under the folder location Data Types The recommended data types to scan for is: Social Security Credit Card Bank Account Drivers License Locations NOTE: Spirion will only scan one location at a time. You need to start another scan if you would like to scan another location. If you don't set the recommended settings above, Spirion will not scan mapped/network drives. My Computer: Search for data types across all hard drives and removable drives on your computer My Documents: Search within the Documents and Settings folders for the current user on your computer Removable Drives: Search for data types across all removable drives connected to your computer Custom Folders: Search within the specific folders of your choice
