Question: ITS Data Center Account Code Change
Article Text: Purpose: This online form is to request to change the account to charge for subscribed data center services (DCS). STEP 1: Filling out the Form You can directly access the form here go.hawaii.edu/2Q2. The (form) Submitter is the Department Telecom Coordinator (DTC) or Alternate DTC. The link to the main page of Kuali Build where you can access saved forms is https://hawaii.kualibuild.com/ All fields indicated with an * are required fields for initial submission. DEPARTMENT NAME: The name of the department that would like to change their account code. DATA CENTER SERVICE: Enter the VM name or physical data center location of the data center service. ACCOUNT CODE: Enter the account code that is currently used to charge for the above DCS. Then, enter the new account code to charge for the above DCS. EFFECTIVE DATE: Enter the date that the account code change will be effective. FISCAL ADMINISTRATOR: Enter the name of the Fiscal Administrator who is responsible for the new account code. You may also CC anyone who may need to be notified of the account code change. NEW SUBMITTED BY: The person who submitted the request. This field is populated automatically based on the person logged in to Kuali. ACTIONS: While working on this form, you can save at any time by clicking on the “Save” button. When you have completed the form, click on the “Submit” button. If you change your mind on this request click on the “Discard” button. TO RETURN TO A SAVED FORM: Go to the Kuali Build page (https://hawaii.kualibuild.com/) Click on the “Action List” at the top of the page. This will list the forms you have saved. STEP 2: Department Telecom Coordinator Approval Once the Submitter clicks on the Submit button, an email will be sent to the person listed as the Department Telecom Coordinator. The email will be sent from Kuali Notifications <no-reply@kuali.co> with the subject “Your APPROVAL is required: ITS Telecom Request - DTC Approval”. If the information is correct, the DTC may approve by clicking on the Approve button. If not, the DTC may make changes to the information entered on the form then Approve. The DTC may also Send Back the TR and a notification will be sent back to the Submitter to make the necessary changes. Or they may Deny the TR and a notification will be sent back to the Submitter that the form was denied and will need to be re-submitted as a new document. ACTIONS: While working on this form, you can save at any time by clicking on the “Save” button. When the DTC has made any necessary changes, they can Approve to send to STEP 3 or Send Back to have the Submitter make changes or corrections or Deny which will cancel the document. TO RETURN TO A SAVED FORM: Go to the Kuali Build page (https://hawaii.kualibuild.com/) Click on the “Action List” at the top of the page. This will list the forms you have saved. STEP 3: Department Authorization Approval After the Department Telecom Coordinator approves the form, the person listed as the Department Authorization will receive an email. The email will be sent from Kuali Notifications <no-reply@kuali.co> with the subject “Your APPROVAL is required: ITS Telecom Request - DA Approval”. If the information is correct, the DA may approve the TR by clicking on the Approve button. If not, the DA may make changes to the information entered on the form then Approve. The DA may also Send Back the TR and a notification will be sent back to the Submitter to make the necessary changes. They may Deny the TR and a notification will be sent to the Submitter that the form was denied and if needed they will need to submit a new form. ACTIONS: While working on this form, you can save at any time by clicking on the “Save” button. When the DA has made any necessary changes, they can Approve to send to STEP 4 or Send Back to have the Submitter make changes or corrections or Deny which will cancel the document. STEP 4: Fiscal Administrator Approval If the TR is approved by the DTC, an email will be sent to the person listed as the Fiscal Administrator. The email will be sent from Kuali Notifications <no-reply@kuali.co> with the subject “Your APPROVAL is required: ITS Telecom Request - FA Approval”. If the information is correct, the FA may approve the TR by clicking on the Approve button. If not, the FA may make changes to the information entered on the form then Approve. The FA may also Send Back the TR and a notification will be sent back to the Submitter to make the necessary changes. Or they may Deny the TR and a notification will be sent back to the Submitter that the form was denied and will need to be re-submitted as a new document. ACTIONS: While working on this form, you can save at any time by clicking on the “Save” button. When the DTC has made any necessary changes, they can Approve to send to STEP 5 or Send Back to have the Submitter make changes or corrections or Deny which will cancel the document. TO RETURN TO A SAVED FORM: Go to the Kuali Build page (https://hawaii.kualibuild.com/) Click on the “Action List” at the top of the page. This will list the forms you have saved. STEP 5: ITS Approval and Completion If the TR is approved by the DTC and the FA, the form will be sent to ITS for approval. Once approved, an email will be sent to the Submitter, DTC, FA and the Telecom team with the final information on the form. The email will be sent from Kuali Notifications <no-reply@kuali.co> with the subject “ITS Telecom Request Approved”. Workflow Summary
