Question: ITS Data Center Services Co-Location Request
Article Text: Data Center Co-location Services “Co-Location” is an ITS service that allows departments and researchers at the University of Hawaii to locate and operate their computing hardware inside professionally maintained data centers on the Manoa campus. For answers to FAQs you may have, please see below or click here. Co-Location services can be requested by logging into the UH ITSM web portal by going here and clicking on login on the page or in the upper right. Access to the UH ITSM services requires enterprise VPN (For more information, visit http://hawaii.edu/askus/819) and a UH username. You can also find information on Virtual Servers (VS) services at http://hawaii.edu/askus/1848, If you are a new customer or if you have an existing service but would like to manage it under a different account code or as a separate project, create a new DC COLO request. Select “DC COLO” from the banner beloww the UH logo to make a new DC COLO request. If you have existing RU’s/Cabinets with us, you can request changes to or removal of those services through the same portal. Refer to hawaii.edu/askus/1868 for more information and instructions. NOTE: Your session may time out, be sure to save your request frequently. In order to save your request, you must have all the required fields* filled out. Once you save the form, you will be given an SR number to reference back to your form. *Required fields: admin and billing contacts, data governance, and enterprise firewall. Step 1: Colocation Services Request ATTACH FILES: If you have any previous agreements that were made via email, or other documents, use the “attach” file option. PLEASE DESCRIBE YOUR REQUEST: By default, the comment, “New DC COLO Request”, will be recorded in this description box. There will be a separate description box for you to enter specific information about this request. PRODUCT ITEMS: There will be a drop down box for you to select between "Physical Colocation - Cabinet" or "Physical Colocation - RU". - If you select to purchase Physical Colocation - Cabinet, you are responsible for managing the network within your cabinet. - If you select to purchase Physical Colocation - RU, you are purchasing the per rack unit service and ITS will handle these responsibilities. QUANTITY: Fill in the number of Product items you are requesting PRODUCT DESCRIPTION: The product description will be autofilled based on the product you selected under “Product Items” TOTAL COST: The total cost will be autofilled when you enter the quantity of the product MOA #: The Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) is to establish a billing agreement between Information Technology Services (ITS) and departments subscribing to data center services. If you know what the MOA # is, please fill it in. If not, we will fill it in for you. The MOA must be completed for the service to be delivered. For more information about the MOA, please go to: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1817. Step 2: Requestor and Department Information REQUESTOR: The requestor is the person requesting the service. DEPARTMENT: Please select the department name from the drop down menu. For the department subgroup, you may type the subgroup or project associated with this request. *BILLING: The billing contact is the person responsible for the charges (This is usually the department’s fiscal administrator [FA]). *TECHNICAL & ADMIN: The technical and admin contacts are the persons responsible for maintaining the resources stored at the data center; they will have the authority to add and remove people from the data center access list. The provided emails must be hawaii.edu addresses. (Only those in the data center access list are authorized to enter the data center) * For access to the data center, deliveries, or assistance, please email itsdctr@hawaii.edu. Step 3: Colocation services options DESCRIPTION OF USE: Information that will help identify what this will be used for, such as computer name or project. This description can be a story or narrative to describe what this will be used for. NETWORK REQUIREMENTS: The physical and/or logical topology setup (Ex. network equipment - switches, IP, routing to your departmental firewall.). *ENTERPRISE FIREWALL: You will be given the option to use an ITS managed firewall. *DATA GOVERNANCE: You must select yes or no to the following selections. If you select “yes” to any of the options, please read the note below regarding the security of devices. * Security of devices. You are responsible for following University guidelines and general best practices for securing your IT components. This includes registering and patching servers, using appropriate malware avoidance software and maintaining access control lists for your devices. If you handle HIPAA, FERPA, or PCI data, you are responsible for identifying an appropriate compliance officer to ensure you are handling and securing your data in accordance with UH, state and federal policies for handling such data. For more information regarding UH Information Security, go here: https://www.hawaii.edu/infosec/minimum-standards/#pubTable. Step 4: DCS TEAM USER ONLY Only DCS Team Users will enter information in this section. COMPLETION: When you have completed this form, scroll up to the top of the page to select the “Submit” button. DC Co-location Frequently Asked Questions Who do I contact with questions about billing? Please contact our billing team at itsdctr@hawaii.edu or call us at 956-6033. When do I need to do a NEW request and when do I do a SERVICE CHANGE request? A NEW request is for a new customer/service or an existing customer who has an existing Co-Location service and would like to have it billed to a different account code from the existing service. For example, if you are paying for 4 RU’s with ACCOUNT CODE A, and would like to add 2 more RU’s charged to ACCOUNT CODE B, then you will need to do a NEW request for the 2 RU’s. The SERVICE CHANGE request is to add or delete to your existing service with the same account code. For example, if you have 2 cabinets charged to ACCOUNT CODE A and would like to add 1 more cabinet and charge it to the same ACCOUNT CODE A, you would do a SERVICE CHANGE to change the quantity from 2 to 3. When do I need to submit an MOA? You will need to submit a new MOA for all NEW requests. How do I submit an MOA? The direct link to the form is http://go.hawaii.edu/AHH. The (form) Submitter is usually the person requesting DCS. You can find additional information at hawaii.edu/askus/1817. How can I change the account code to charge for our Co-Location Service? The direct link to the form is http://go.hawaii.edu/3dV. The submitter is usually one of the contacts listed for the service. The request will need to be approved by your department’s Fiscal Administrator. You can find additional information at hawaii.edu/askus/1823. What if I want to charge our service to multiple account codes? You would need to split the service by whole items and create a new service request for the second account code. For example, if you have 2 cabinets, you would change your existing service to 1 cabinet with the existing account code and create a NEW request for 1 cabinet with the second account code. Back to top.
