Question: ITS IP Address Request Form
Article Text: Formerly the ITS Fixed IP Request Form. This form will be used to for both ITS fixed IP requests and also requests for Facilities network devices that require a static private IP (i.e. 10.180.x.x). Fixed addresses leverage the fundamental concepts of Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol or DHCP. They rely on a bind manually entered on the DHCP Server by ITS Staff referencing the devices MAC Address to an IP Address. Simply put, users are not required to configure an address on their device (static), instead follow the steps indicated below which make the process seamless to the user. Please allow for 1-2 business days to process the request after the ITS Fixed IP Request Form has been vetted and approved by all parties. Determine if you need a fixed IP address. Criteria that justifies requesting a fixed IP: A. Departmental Server B. PC for NGN access. C. Printers used by three (3) or more users. All unsupported devices designated by ITS will be denied. ITS reserves the right to terminate the fixed address for malicious or inactive usage (90 days). To ensure we don't exhaust our IPv4 addresses, a yearly purge will take place at the end of each calendar year. Please fill out this request form for any devices that require an unchanging IP address within your departments subnet. Link to the ITS Data Center ITS Fixed IP Request Form: http://go.hawaii.edu/Pqw Name: Submitter's first and last name. Email: Submitter's UH email address. Office Phone: Submitter's UH office phone number. Department: Submitter's department name. Department IT Staff Name: Please type the first and last name, or username, of the departments IT Specialist or staff that manages IT devices for this department. Please select the correct name when the results appear in this field. If no Department IT Staff, then use supervisors name. This person will also be contacted for this forms approval process. 11 or More Devices If you are requesting changes to 11 or more devices, you can check the box below to upload a file. The file should contain the following fields: A section to upload a file will appear. The file requries the folllowing fields for each device: Request type: add/remove MAC/Physical address Device: type (ex. printer), make and model Network: IP address assigned or desired IP/Subnet Building/Location and room number Data jack number Reason 10 or Fewer Devices Request to: Select if you are requesting to add a device for a fixed IP or remove a device from having a fixed IP. For Facilities network device IP requests (i.e. 10.180.x.x), this applies as well. Please select add to request a private static IP, or select remove if removing/retiring a device from the current Facilities network. MAC Address/Physical Address: String of six sets of two digit characters, twelve characters altogether (i.e. A4:4C:C8:4B:7B:A0). You can follow the links below for information on how to find the mac address and IP address for Windows/Apple wired devices. hawaii.edu/askus/1035 hawaii.edu/askus/357 Device: Description of the type of device that requires a fixed IP, or removal of a fixed IP (i.e. Printer, Server, PC). Please include the make and model of the device if possible. Network: If requesting to add a device for a fixed IP, please type the IP of the subnet that you wish the device to have (i.e. 128.171.x.x). If requesting to remove a device from having a fixed IP, please type the devices current fixed IP. The fixed IP of this device correlates to the building/locations subnet that this device resides in. Location and Room #: Building name and room number of the devices location. Data Jack #: Please type the four or five digit number of the wall jacks faceplate that this wired device is connecting to. Reason: Please explain what is the reason for this device to have a fixed IP setup, or a removal of its fixed IP setup. Additional Device: Fill out the above information for additional devices that require a fixed IP or removal of a fixed IP. Up to ten devices total for one request form, or upload a file above to request/remove 11 or more IP addresses.
