Question: Un-suspend (Un-delete) Brand Account in Preparation for Migration to YouTube Studio
Article Text: These instructions are only for users who have received an email from Google with subject "Prevent your Brand Accounts deletion" or "Brand Account suspension" AND have already contacted the ITS Help Desk. Step 1: Un-suspend (Un-delete) your Brand Account Navigate to https://myaccount.google.com/brandaccounts. Click on Deleted accounts. Next to the account you want to restore, tap Restore this Brand Account . The restored account will show up in your list of Brand Accounts. Step 2: Transfer Brand Account's Primary Owner to a Departmental UH Username This step is optional but recommended if migrating a business or departmental YouTube channel to YouTube Studio to ensure longevity of the channel beyond any one individual's UH Username. Only the Primary Owner of a Brand Account can migrate YouTube content to YouTube Studio, and all content migrated will then be owned directly by that Primary Owner. If you had previously added your Departmental UH Username as an owner or manager of your Brand Account, you can skip to step C. A. Invite your Departmental UH Username manage your Brand Account as an owner. Navigate to https://myaccount.google.com/brandaccounts. Log in with your individual UH Username. Select the Brand Account you want to manage. Select Manage permissions. You'll see a list of people who can manage the account. Click the invite new users button . Enter the email address for your Departmental UH Username. Below your Departmental UH Username's email address where it says "Choose a role", select the Owner role. Click Invite, then click Done. B. Accept the invitation at your Departmental UH Username's inbox. In a new incognito/private browser window or different browser, navigate to https://mail.google.com/a/hawaii.edu. Log in as your Departmental UH Username. Find and open the invitation email, the subject may read "<First Last> invited you to own <Brand Account Name>". In the email, click the Accept invitation button. If a new browser window opens asking if you want to 'become and owner of <Brand Account Name>", click Accept. You will need to wait seven (7) days until you can proceed with the steps below to transfer primary owner to your Departmental UH Username. C. Transfer Primary Owner of your Brand Account to your Departmental UH Username. Navigate to https://myaccount.google.com/brandaccounts. Log in with your individual UH Username. Select the Brand Account you want to manage. Select Manage permissions. You'll see a list of people who can manage the account. Find your Departmental UH Username in the list. Next to its name/email, click the down arrow . Select Primary Owner, then Transfer. Click Done. D. Enroll your Departmental UH Username into Google@UH Consumer Apps. Navigate to https://www.hawaii.edu/google/extra/. Click the Login button and log in as your Departmental UH Username. After logging in, if you see text at the top of the page indicating "You have already turned on the Google@UH Consumer Apps!", you're all set. Otherwise, continue with the steps below. Read the Use of Google Consumer Apps terms. Select the checkbox to indicate that you "have read and understand the above, and would like to to proceed with turning on the Consumer Apps for [your] Google@UH account." Click the Turn on Consumer Apps button. Step 3: Migrate your Brand Account to YouTube Studio Once you've completed these steps you will be able to migrate your Brand Account to YouTube Studio. See https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1857 for instructions to migrate to YouTube Studio.
