Question: Requesting a UH Grouping for ISAT Compliance
Article Text: Note: if you are not a campus or department ISAT coordinator, but need to take the ISAT, please go to https://www.hawaii.edu/infosec/training/ Below are the steps for requesting a UH Grouping, which can be used to check ISAT compliance for a group of people. For example, a UH Grouping could be requested to check a department's employees' ISAT compliance. Visit https://services.its.hawaii.edu/CherwellPortal Click Login Authenticate using your UH Username and Password Click Make a Request Navigate to Security > Identity and Access Management > ISAT Compliance UH Groupings Request Read through the information presented about ISAT Compliance UH Groupings, and peruse the UH Groupings Documentation via the link on the right, if desired. Where requested, select your Campus, select or enter your Department/Unit, and provide a short description of the purpose of your request. If you have an existing UH grouping that you would like ITS to use as the basis for your ISAT grouping, please enter it into the "Please describe the purpose..." box as well. Please note, that the name of your grouping will follow this convention: <campus>-<unit>-isat-compliance. For example, if you are with the Manoa Life Sciences department, your grouping name would be man-lifesciences-isat-compliance Scroll down, if required, and complete the form by entering the information for an owner. At least one owner is required. Check the box once you have read and if you agree with the Agreement. Scroll back to the top of the page. If you would like the Help Desk to populate the grouping with your department's faculty and staff, please create a text/word/excel file with a list of your department's faculty and staff, with either their UH Username or their UH Number listed one per line. Attach this file to this request by clicking on the Attach File button. Click on the Submit button to submit your request. Please allow 24-48 hours for processing of your request.
