Question: Accessing and Using the UH Groupings Management Application (ISAT Compliance)
Article Text: Once you have a UH Grouping for ISAT Compliance, you will need to add and/or remove to this UH Grouping, before you can check their compliance. You can gain access to manage your UH Grouping at https://www.hawaii.edu/its/uhgroupings/< Click on Login Here At the top or bottom of the page, click on Groupings Click on your ISAT grouping; normally it will follow the naming convention <campus>-<unit>-isat-compliance. Adding people to the ISAT Compliance UH Grouping Access the UH Grouping On the left, click on the + (plus) icon Enter the username of the person you want to add to the grouping into the Members to add or remove box, and click on Add. You will be asked if you are sure you want to add the person to the Include list. Click on Yes. You will be told the person was successfully added to the include list. Click on OK. Repeat steps 3-5 for each person that you want to add. If you have a large number of people to add, please submit a new UH Groupings request, note that you already have a UH Grouping created, attach a text/word/excel file containing the UH usernames or UH numbers of the people to be added, and we will import the list into your grouping for you. Removing people from the ISAT Compliance UH Grouping Access the UH Grouping On the left, click on the + (plus) icon Enter the username of the person you want to delete from the grouping into the Filter Members box, then click on the trash can icon. You will be asked if you are sure you want to remove the person from the Include list. Click on Yes. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for each person that you want to remove. Excluding people from the ISAT Compliance UH Grouping If your grouping's membership is automatically calculated based on affiliation, you will have to exclude people from the grouping, rather than delete them. Access the UH Grouping On the left, click on the - (minus) icon Enter the username of the person you want to exclude from the grouping into the Members to add or remove box, and click on Add. You will be asked if you are sure you want to add the person to the Exclude list. Click on Yes. Youl will be told the person was successfully added to the Exclude list. Click on OK. Repeat steps 3-5 for each person that you want to exclude.
