Question: Departmental ISAT Compliance
Article Text: This article is for departmental or campus ISAT coordinators, and describes how to request and manage a UH Grouping, and how to check ISAT compliance within their department. If you are not an ISAT coordinator but instead need to take the ISAT training, please go to https://www.hawaii.edu/infosec/training/ Step 1: Request a UH Grouping for ISAT Compliance Requesting a UH Grouping for ISAT Compliance Step 2: Accessing and Using the UH Groupings Management Application (ISAT Compliance) Accessing and Using the UH Groupings Management Application (ISAT Compliance) Step 3: Checking ISAT compliance Checking ISAT compliance Requesting a UH Grouping for ISAT Compliance Note: if you are not a campus or department ISAT coordinator, but need to take the ISAT, please go to https://www.hawaii.edu/infosec/training/ Below are the steps for requesting a UH Grouping, which can be used to check ISAT compliance for a group of people. For example, a UH Grouping could be requested to check a department's employees' ISAT compliance. Visit https://services.its.hawaii.edu/CherwellPortal Click Login Authenticate using your UH Username and Password Click Make a Request Navigate to Security > Identity and Access Management > ISAT Compliance UH Groupings Request Read through the information presented about ISAT Compliance UH Groupings, and peruse the UH Groupings Documentation via the link on the right, if desired. Where requested, select your Campus, select or enter your Department/Unit, and provide a short description of the purpose of your request. If you have an existing UH grouping that you would like ITS to use as the basis for your ISAT grouping, please enter it into the "Please describe the purpose..." box as well. Please note, that the name of your grouping will follow this convention: <campus>-<unit>-isat-compliance. For example, if you are with the Manoa Life Sciences department, your grouping name would be man-lifesciences-isat-compliance Scroll down, if required, and complete the form by entering the information for an owner. At least one owner is required. Check the box once you have read and if you agree with the Agreement. Scroll back to the top of the page. If you would like the Help Desk to populate the grouping with your department's faculty and staff, please create a text/word/excel file with a list of your department's faculty and staff, with either their UH Username or their UH Number listed one per line. Attach this file to this request by clicking on the Attach File button. Click on the Submit button to submit your request. Please allow 24-48 hours for processing of your request. Accessing and Using the UH Groupings Management Application (ISAT Compliance) Once you have a UH Grouping for ISAT Compliance, you will need to add and/or remove to this UH Grouping, before you can check their compliance. You can gain access to manage your UH Grouping at https://www.hawaii.edu/its/uhgroupings/< Click on Login Here At the top or bottom of the page, click on Groupings Click on your ISAT grouping; normally it will follow the naming convention <campus>-<unit>-isat-compliance. Adding people to the ISAT Compliance UH Grouping Access the UH Grouping On the left, click on the + (plus) icon Enter the username of the person you want to add to the grouping into the Members to add or remove box, and click on Add. You will be asked if you are sure you want to add the person to the Include list. Click on Yes. You will be told the person was successfully added to the include list. Click on OK. Repeat steps 3-5 for each person that you want to add. If you have a large number of people to add, please submit a new UH Groupings request, note that you already have a UH Grouping created, attach a text/word/excel file containing the UH usernames or UH numbers of the people to be added, and we will import the list into your grouping for you. Removing people from the ISAT Compliance UH Grouping Access the UH Grouping On the left, click on the + (plus) icon Enter the username of the person you want to delete from the grouping into the Filter Members box, then click on the trash can icon. You will be asked if you are sure you want to remove the person from the Include list. Click on Yes. Repeat steps 3 and 4 for each person that you want to remove. Excluding people from the ISAT Compliance UH Grouping If your grouping's membership is automatically calculated based on affiliation, you will have to exclude people from the grouping, rather than delete them. Access the UH Grouping On the left, click on the - (minus) icon Enter the username of the person you want to exclude from the grouping into the Members to add or remove box, and click on Add. You will be asked if you are sure you want to add the person to the Exclude list. Click on Yes. Youl will be told the person was successfully added to the Exclude list. Click on OK. Repeat steps 3-5 for each person that you want to exclude. Checking ISAT compliance The website to check ISAT compliance is at https://hawaii.edu/its/acer/complianceCheck/ Click on Login to login If you are responsible for multiple ISAT groupings, select the grouping you wish to check from the Select a group drop down menu. Non-Compliant members If you would like to find out who is not compliant, select Not Compliant from the Select a status drop down menu. Click on Run Query The list of people in the grouping who may be out of compliance (ISAT date is greater than 1 year) will be displayed. All non-compliant group members will have no ISAT date (ISAT dates older than 1 year are not stored), so the "# Days Before Expiration" will always be 0 (zero). To download the list, click on Download all query results (link is located below the table). This will download a csv file that you can open with Excel or Google Drive. Compliant Members If you would like to find out who is compliant, select Compliant from the Select a status drop down menu. Click on Run Query The list of people in the grouping who are compliant (ISAT date within 1 year) will be displayed. The ISAT Date and Time column displays the date and time the person last took the iSAT. The # Days Before Expiration column displays the amount of days left before the person has to re-take the ISAT. As it gets closer to their anniversary date, the cells will go from yellow, to orange, to pink, then red To download the list, click on Download all query results (link is located below the table). This will download a csv file that you can open with Excel or Google Drive.
