Question: Pop-up Blockers
Article Text: Various web browsers (e.g. Microsoft Edge, Chrome, or Firefox) have tools to turn on or off text windows called "Pop-ups". When visiting unfamiliar web pages, it is precautionary to block these pop-up windows as they could be used to display annoying ads or possibly impose a security risk. However, several applications at UH require these pop-up windows and they should be added as "allowed" sites. Examples are the MyUH site (https://myuh.hawaii.edu), the Google@UH GMail site (http://gmail.hawaii.edu), and the Hawaii Information Portal site (https://hihpsso.hip.hawaii.gov). The following are instructions on how to allow sites through the popup blockers for different browsers: Microsoft Edge: In Edge you cannot make exceptions regarding specific sites, however you can still turn on a pop up blocker. Select the dotted line icon on the top right corner of the browser, then select Settings from the list. Select Cookies and site permissions, then Pop-ups and redirects to turn Block pop-ups on or off. Firefox/Mac or Windows: Windows: Go to the menu tab for tools or click the 3 horizontal lines icon in the top right, select Options, then go to Privacy & Security. Under Permissions: if "Block Pop-up Windows" is checked, then click on the Exceptions... button next to this option and type in the site you want to allow (e.g. "gmail.hawaii.edu", "myuh.hawaii.edu", or "hihpsso.hip.hawaii.gov") and click Allow. Repeat this step for each site you want to allow. if "Block Pop-up Windows" is not checked, then Firefox should not block any pop-up windows. Mac: Go to the Firefox menu (to the right of the Apple menu) and select Preferences..., then go to Privacy & Security. Under Permissions: if "Block Pop-up Windows" is checked, then click on the Exceptions... button next to this option and type in the site you want to allow (e.g. "gmail.hawaii.edu", "myuh.hawaii.edu", or "hihpsso.hip.hawaii.gov") and click Allow. Repeat this step for each site you want to allow. if "Block Pop-up Windows" is not checked, then Firefox should not block any pop-up windows. Google Chrome/Mac or Windows: Click the more icon on the top right. Select Settings. In the Privacy and security section, click the Site Settings option. In the Pop-ups and redirects section, click the Add button next to Allow. In the pop-up box, type in the site you want to allow (e.g. "gmail.hawaii.edu", "myuh.hawaii.edu", or "hihpsso.hip.hawaii.gov") and click Add. Repeat for each site you want to allow. Safari: Navigate Safari to the site you want to allow (e.g. "gmail.hawaii.edu", "myuh.hawaii.edu", or "hihpsso.hip.hawaii.gov"). Go to the Safari menu (to the right of the Apple menu). Select Preferences.... Click Websites, and then select Pop-up Windows from the list on the left side of the window. Look for the site under Currently Open Websites. Use the selector to the right of the site and select Allow.
