Question: Backing Up Thunderbird Emails for MacOS
Article Text: Please note that this documentation assumes you have set up your email in Thunderbird with IMAP or POP3. If you do not already have IMAP/POP3 enabled in your email address settings you will first need to enable less secure apps in Google. Instructions to do so may be found here. Once enabled, you may go here for instructions on how to enable IMAP/POP3 for your gmail account. If you are using Gmail 2-step verification, you may need to create an app-specific password when signing into your gmail account. Instructions to do so can be found here. If you are using POP3, you will need to update your authentication setting to use OAuth2 for both incoming and outgoing server settings. This is done by clicking on “Configure manually…” at the bottom left window after entering in your email address. General Information on Mozilla Thunderbird Mozilla Thunderbird will automatically create a Thunderbird Profile which stores your email data and Thunderbird configurations. If you would like to create a backup of your email data you will first have to locate your Thunderbird Profile. Once located you will have two options: copying your entire profile, or copying just your email data. Instructions on how to locate your Thunderbird Profile are included below. All screenshots taken in this article were done in MacOS Catalina version 10.15.4. Locating Your Thunderbird Profile To locate your profile, click on Help within the Thunderbird menu bar at the top. From there, click on Troubleshooting Information which should open a new tab with that name. Under the Application Basics header there will be a field labeled Profiles with a link, “about:profiles” next to it. Clicking on that link will open a new tab called About Profiles and will display all of the Thunderbird profiles you currently have. The current profile in use will be indicated by a “yes” next to the Default Profile field. Click on the “Show in Finder” button in the Root Directory field to be taken directly to your profile. Copying Your Entire Thunderbird Profile Once you have located your profile folder, you can simply copy and paste the entire folder into a desired location to create a backup. Copying Your Email Data If you would like to copy just your email data, there are two different ways to go about this. Copying all of your email data - The steps for this option will differ slightly depending on whether you used IMAP or POP3 when setting up your email account in Thunderbird. Copying specific email folders to Local Folders - This will require you to set up Local Folders and move mail into them from whichever email folders you would like to backup. The following sections contain the instructions on how to copy your data using the above methods: Copying All Email Data (from an IMAP or POP3 Account) If you have set up your email account using IMAP, your emails will be stored in the “ImapMail” folder. You can copy and paste that folder onto a storage device for a backup. If you have set up your email account using POP3, your emails will be stored in the “Mail” folder under “pop.service-name.com”. The ‘service-name’ will be the type of account you use, such as Gmail or Yahoo. You can copy and paste that folder onto a storage device for a backup. Copying Specific Email Folders to Local Folders Instead of copying all of your emails through your Thunderbird Profile or through email folders for IMAP or POP3, you may instead choose to copy specific email folders in the Thunderbird application to Local Folders that you will need to set up manually and move your email to them. Creating Local Folders The first step in moving your mail to your hard drive is to create local mail folders that have the same name as your folders on the mail server. In the list of folders on the left side pane, click once on "Local Folders" to select it. Go to the "File" menu, select New, then select Folder The "Create as a subfolder of" should already be set to "Local Folders" In the "Name" box, type UH Email Backup. Click Create Folder. If necessary, click on the triangle next to Local Folders to expand it and see your newly created folder. Click once on the "UH Email Backup" folder to select it. Go to the "File" menu, select New, the select Subfolder. Make sure the "Create as a subfolder of" is set to UH Email Backup. In the "Name" box, type Inbox. Click Create Folder. Repeat steps 5 - 7 and create folders for all the different folders that you wish to copy off of the server. (E.g. Drafts, Sent, Trash, and whatever else is listed on the left-hand side under your hawaii.edu email address.) When you are done, if necessary, click on the triangle next to "UH Email Backup" to expand and show what's stored inside. Your Thunderbird window should look similar to below, except with your information. The next step will be moving the mail to your newly created Local Folders. Moving Mail to Your Local Folders You should try the following steps on a small amount of messages first. Be sure you are comfortable with this process before attempting to move mail from a critical folder such as Sent or Inbox. Before doing the steps below, please be sure you are not logged into your UH Gmail in a web browser or other computer. You first have to select the folder that contains the messages you want to move. In this example, we will move messages from the "Inbox" folder. On the left side of the screen, click on the folder "Inbox" that's listed under the "username@hawaii.edu" section (do not select the one under "UH Email Backup"). Go to the "Edit" menu, select Select, then select All. All the messages in the "meetings" folder will now be selected. If there are a large amount of messages in the folder, do not use "Select All". Instead, select a portion of the messages by clicking on the first message you want to move, then hold down the shift key and click on the last message you want to move. Go to the "Message" menu --> then select Copy To [IMPORTANT: you should copy the messages rather than move them, in case anything goes wrong during the transfer] --> then select Local Folders --> then select UH Email Backup --> then select Inbox (and let go of the mouse button) The highlighted messages will be moved to the meetings folder. Depending on how many messages you selected to move, this could take some time. On the left side, select the Inbox folder under the UH Email Backup section and verify the messages are there. Once you have verified that the messages were successfully copied, you may delete them from the server (in other words, delete them from under the "username@hawaii.edu" section). Repeat steps 1 - 5 for each of the folders that you wish to move off of the server.
