Question: Dell NASPO ValuePoint (WSCA) Purchasing Procedures
Article Text: This document was written specifically for Fiscal Administrators (or which ever individual approves computer purchases for your UH department). It is assumed that a member of your department has followed ITS's instructions for making an online order with Dell and has provided you with the "E-quote" for this order. (An E-quote is a unique reference number associated with an order for computer equipment which has been saved using Dell Premier. Saving the order as an E-quote "locks onto" a price and configuration for up to 90 days. After 90 days, the E-quote is automatically deleted from Dell's system.) To process an order: The State of Hawaii General Excise Tax is 4.712% for Oahu, 4.166% for neighbor islands. To add this state tax to the price of the order, multiply the Total Price (from the printed order) by 1.04712 for Oahu, and 1.0417 for neighbor islands. (Do not include shipping. Dell provides free shipping for departmental purchases.) Prepare a purchase order for this item using the new price calculated above. Include the NASPO ValuePoint SPO Contract Number 15-05 and Dell Master Agreement Number MNWNC-108 on your purchase order. (Note: your Dell equote will reference contract code WN10AGW which is Dell's internal contract code for SPO contract 15-05.) Please note that although we may use the NASPO ValuePoint contract to purchase, Dell's Higher Ed Team can place your order. Either pricing for NASPO ValuePoint or Dell's Higher Education pricing may be used to purchase UH equipment. However, going through the Higher Ed team is slightly lower as they will accept the lowest price you find, and then waive the shipping cost. If the department selects a vendor that offers the best value but not the lowest price, you are required to fill out OPRPM Form 95. Fax the purchase order and the printed E-quote to the UH Dell Premier Team: Mariah Whittet, Inside Sales Account Manager Phone: (512) 513-0790 Mariah.Whittet@dell.com Walter Eccles, Account Executive Phone: (808) 222-1472 Walter.Eccles@dell.com
