Question: UH and the NASPO ValuePoint (WSCA) contract
Article Text: The State Procurement Office (SPO) issued a new SPO Price List Contract No. 15-05 named "NASPO ValuePoint Computer Equipment including Related Peripherals and Services". The most current version of the NASPO ValuePoint contract 15-05 is available on the SPO website. Search for 15-05. Additional vendors will be added to this price list contract when they sign a Participating Addendum with the State of Hawaii. Introduction Contractors Premium Savings Package FAQ Supporting links Introduction The NASPO ValuePoint Cooperative Purchasing Organization (formerly WSCA-NASPO), the cooperative purchasing arm of NASPO (the National Association of State Procurement Officials), is a national multi-state contracting consortium of state governments, including local governments. NASPO ValuePoint awarded new contracts for computer equipment, peripherals and related services at volume discounted prices. The State Procurement Office (SPO), on behalf of the University of Hawaii and other Hawaii purchasing jurisdictions, participate in the NASPO ValuePoint computer contract and has issued SPO Price List No. 15-05. The consortium was formerly called Western States Contracting Alliance (WSCA), the group of 15 western states in NASPO that conducted cooperative purchasing. Contractors The list of authorized contractors and resellers for SPO Contract 15-05 is listed in the back of the contract. For your convenience, NASPO ValuePoint authorized contractors and reseller contact is summarized here. NOTE: In an effort to standardize personal computer hardware within the UH System, ITS recommends purchasing Dell or Apple computers. However, departments are not precluded from purchasing computers from other manufacturers. Premium Savings Package (PSP) Premium Savings Package (PSP) are deeply discounted standard configurations of Desktops, Laptops, Tablets, Server, Storage, Printers, and Monitors. They are offered by authorized PSP contractors who maintain and upgrade the standard configurations for a stated period of time or interval. NASPO ValuePoint reserves the right to expand and modify the PSP throughout the life of the contract. The latest PSP pricing and specifications are posted at https://www.naspovaluepoint.org/portfolio/computer-equipment-peripherals-related-services-2015-2021/. How to Order from PSP Authorized Contractors Agency shall download and review PSP pricing and specifications at https://www.naspovaluepoint.org/portfolio/computer-equipment-peripherals-related-services-2015-2021/. Click on any authorized contractor, then click on latest pricing/specifications. Agency shall select one authorized contractor for a written price quote. The model name and number is provided by the agency to the contractor. Form SPO-010 (Record of Procurement) is optional for purchases not exceeding $5,000. Form SPO-010 (Record of Procurement) is completed for purchases $5,000 and higher. The approved Form SPO-010 is kept in the procurement/contract file. Note: for purchases greater than $2,500.00 with only one (1) written quote, UH Form 95 is required. FAQ Q: Due to the potentially high dollar amount of the purchases, are departments still required to solicit multiple quotations although they are purchasing from the NASPO contract? A: According to the NASPO ValuePoint contract 15-05, the minimum number of quotes required depends on the purchase amount. For purchases under $5,000 Obtain a minimum of one (1) written quote from a manufacturer or authorized reseller. Form SPO-010 is optional. Award is based on best value. For purchases from $5,000 to under $100,000 Obtain a price quote from two (2) or more different contractors OR Select one contractor that lists two (2) or more authorized resellers and obtain a minimum of two (2) price quotes from the manufacturer and/or their authorized resellers. Complete Form SPO-010. Award is based on best value. For purchases from $100,000 and above Obtain a price quote from three (3) or more different contractors OR Select one contractor that lists three or more authorized resellers and obtain a minimum of three (3) price quotes from the manufacturer and/or their authorized resellers. Complete Form SPO-010. Award is based on best value. Personnel conducting or participating in utlizing SPO Contract No. 15-05 is responsible to complete form SPO-010, Record of Procurement for purchases of $5,000 or more. If unable to obtain the minimum number of price quotes, written justification is explained in Part C. If award is not made to the lowest bidder, written justification is explained in Part D. The approved Form SPO-010 is kept in the procurement/contract file. Note: for purchases greater than $2,500.00 with only one (1) written quote, UH Form 95 is required. Q: If I use Superquote to get quotes on computer hardware and software and I find cheaper quotes from NASPO am I bound to purchase from the vendors who submitted quotes through Superquote? A: No, you are not required to purchase from this contract. You may either use SuperQUOTE and follow UH purchasing procedures OR obtain quotes from the vendors listed on the SPO Price List 15-05 NASPO contract. Q: Dell offers Higher Education prices. If the Higher Education quote is cheaper than the NASPO ValuePoint quote, am I bound to purchase using the NASPO ValuePoint quote? A: No, you may proceed to purchase using the non-NASPO ValuePoint quote. Normal University purchasing procedures will apply since you are not purchasing through the NASPO ValuePoint contract. Q: How do I purchase computer equipment from a vendor who still has not signed the Participating Addendum? A: You may follow normal University purchasing procedures (APM A8.250 Small Purchases) OR wait until the vendor is added to the vendor list contract when they sign a Participating Addendum with the State of Hawaii and purchase using the NASPO ValuePoint contract. Supporting links NASPO ValuePoint SPO Contract 15-05 Contractors and Authorized Resellers SPO Form 010 Record of Procurement OPRPM Form 95 Determination of Cost or Price Reasonableness ITS Computer Recommendations NASPO ValuePoint Procurement questions for this contract may be directed to OPRPM at 808-956-8687. Revised: September 27, 2018
