Question: Getting Your PC Unblocked on the UH Network
Article Text: The following information pertains only to computers utilizing a Windows-based operating system that have become infected with a virus and that are on the UH Network. Detecting and Removing Viruses Virus infection is a common reason a computer can get blocked from the University of Hawaii network. A virus is defined as a program that was purposely designed to be loaded and run unknowingly on a computer. Some viruses (called worms) replicate themselves and spread to other computers using the network or via infected email messages. Computers are blocked from the network in order to prevent this from happening. Possible 'blocked' computer If you previously have been able to get on the Internet, haven't made any changes to your computer network system, but find that you are unable to get to a web address using a browser while others in your office are able to do so, there is a possibility that your UH Username or Internet Protocol (IP) address might be blocked from the UH network. You may call the Information Technology Services (ITS) Help Desk at (808) 956-8883 from O'ahu, or (800) 558-2669 from the neighbor islands to check if this could be the case. Virus infected computer If your computer is acting very sluggish or is randomly experiencing control problems, or if you have received email messages from friends saying that an email you sent them contained a virus, your computer may be infected with a virus. You should run through the following virus removal procedures to ensure that your computer is not a security risk. Stinger The McAfee Stinger program is a stand-alone utility used to detect and remove specific viruses found on computers today. Stinger is updated every couple of months to keep up-to-date with the newest viruses. You should always download the latest version. You can obtain an updated version of Stinger along with instructions on how to use the program from https://www.mcafee.com/enterprise/en-us/downloads/free-tools/stinger.html. If you do not have access to a computer with an Internet connection, you can walk into an ITS Lab and we will download the software for you. Please be sure to bring a USB flash drive. McAfee Anti-virus The University of Hawaii provides anti-virus software free to active University faculty, staff, or students with a valid UH Username and password. You can download the anti-virus software and instructions online from https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1254. Preventing Future PC Infections This is probably the most important and overlooked step of cleaning a PC. The PC must be secured and patched to prevent future infections. If your PC is not secured you may be re-infected and blocked from using the UH network multiple times. If you have been blocked from using the UH network previously it will be more difficult to get your PC unblocked on successive network blockings. Change/create Passwords for Windows Computers It is important to be sure that all of the accounts on your Windows computer have secure passwords. Insecure passwords can be easily guessed or obtained by automated guessing programs. A secure password is at a minimum six to eight characters long with at least one upper, one lower, one number and one special character. See Password Guidelines for tips on creating strong passwords. If your PC is connected to a Windows domain, please contact your system administrator. For more information, see http://windows.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/change-password Change your password on Windows 10 Click the Start button, click Settings, click Accounts. Click Sign-in options Under Password, Click Change Enter your current password Enter your new password twice along with a password hint, then click Next. Click the Finish button to Change your password. Windows Updates and Patches Windows updates and patches are important for securing Windows PCs. Your computer may get infected or compromised if the Windows security patches are not up-to-date. To manually check for Windows updates: For Windows 10 Select the Start button, and then go to Settings > Update & security > Windows Update, and select Check for updates.
