Question: Frequently Asked Questions About Adding Information to UHINFO
Article Text: Information on the Web becomes part of UHINFO when it's stored or linked into the central information servers on campus. Many colleges, schools, and departments run servers and the Information Technology Services (ITS) office also maintains several central information servers for departments who do not maintain their own servers. Please Note: Due to security reasons, we are only allocating space on our Web server to University departments. Exceptions may be made to Registered Independent Organizations (RIOs) if they have special programming needs. Otherwise, we encourage RIOs to use the free Web space allocated with their ITS Usernames for their Web page. RIOs may download an ITS Username Request form here: www.hawaii.edu/help/accounts/deptaccts.html. Space will not be allocated to any organizations outside of the University. Also note that departmental Web sites on UHINFO must meet the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) guidelines for accessibility for people with disabilities. Please see Assistive Technology and Accessibility for People with Disabilities Questions When should our department consider putting a document or database on the central UHINFO servers? When should our department consider putting information on a local (departmental) server? We want to create a server for our department, where can we get advice? We want to create and maintain a departmental Web page, but not run our own server. Can we do that? Our campus organization/student group already has a server, how can it be added to the server list? How do I get more information about putting data (but not maintaining our own Web pages) on the central UHINFO servers? Answers 1. When should our department or organization consider putting a document or database on the central UHINFO servers? You may consider putting up information on these servers when: Information is so popular that the number of people consulting it might overwhelm your local network; or Information is so critical to campus functions that it needs to be reliably available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week; or Information is of interest to the whole campus, but the department doesn't have a network or any way to support a server. 2. When should our department consider putting information on a local (departmental) server? This option may be better for your department if: The department wants its own special hostname (e.g., www.history.hawaii.edu). The department wants a lot of local control over the look and feel of the information, and values the flexibility and convenience of managing updates directly; or Information is of primary interest to the department; or Information is of wide interest, but the number of people consulting it can be handled by the local network and server; or The department has a lot of information and wants to create a Web structure to tie it all together; and The department has its own personnel available to maintain the server. 3. We want to create a server for our department, where can we get advice? There is an ever increasing number of books, courses, and online resources that are available to help you get started. For smaller Web sites, a simple Windows or Macintosh computer will be adequate. 4. We want to create and maintain a departmental Web page, but not run our own server. Can we do that? Here are some options: (preferred) Department faculty or staff who are willing to maintain their department's information may request space on the ITS server. Please see How to Get your Information into UHINFO for the necessary information. You can create your own pages in your home directory on uhunix following the same instructions for creating personal home pages. You can request a departmental uhunix ID from the Help Desk, then create your own pages in this home directory by following the same instructions for creating personal home pages. If you need help in writing HTML, there is a small sampling of the online resources to assist in Web creation linked to UHINFO. Perhaps the best advice would be to go out and explore other servers to find out which features you like and dislike before working on your own pages. Once you have some of that set up, you may want to contact webhead@hawaii.edu to discuss other viable options like putting it up on a different server. 5. Our campus organization/student group already has a server, how can it be added to the server list? Send an email message to webhead@hawaii.edu with such details as the: the server's Uniform Resource Locator (URL) a short description of your organization's server what department or organization is responsible for maintaining the server, and email address for the server's administrator 6. How do I get more information about putting data (but not maintaining our own Web pages) on the central UHINFO servers? There are several ways to submit information to UHINFO: For one time events, go to the UH Events Calendar and click on the "Add an Event" button at the bottom. For on-going information, send an email message to webhead@hawaii.edu who will be happy to discuss it in more detail.
