Question: Setting up an iPhone or iPad
Article Text: Connecting to the UHM wireless network Apple's iPhone/iPad comes with the ability to connect to a wireless network. Follow the steps in this article to connect your iPhone/iPad to the UHM wireless network. (Do this section only once) On the Home screen, touch Settings Touch Wi-Fi Under the "Choose a Network..." section, touch UHM Press the Home button to exit this screen. You have now joined the UHM wireless network. However, before you can actually connect to any web pages or your email, you will need to do the following: (Do this section each time you want to connect to the UHM wireless network) On the Home screen, touch Safari. Go to any web address. If you are already at a web page, refresh it. You will be asked to login. In the UH Username box, type your UH Username. The UH Username is the part before the @ of your hawaii.edu email address. For example, if your hawaii.edu address is jdoe@hawaii.edu, your username is jdoe. In the UH Password box, type your password Touch Login or Go. You should now be connected to the UHM wireless network. You can tell you have successfully joined the UHM wireless network by checking in the upper left corner of the screen. You should see the wireless symbol (baseball-diamond shape). The amount of lines shown in the wireless symbol represents the wireless signal's strength. If you wish, you can add your iPhone/iPad to the wireless passthrough. This will allow your iPhone/iPad to connect to the UHM network without having to login each time. For more information, please refer to the section, "Wireless Authentication Passthrough" in this article: http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1037. Configuring Mail The iPhone/iPad comes with a built-in Mail client that you can use to view your UH email. This is the preferred method of viewing your mail on the iPhone/iPad, as the UH Web Mail does not fully work with the iPhone/iPad's Safari browser. Follow these steps to configure the iPhone/iPad to receive UH email, with the option of also syncing your UH contacts and calendar. On the Home screen, touch Settings, then touch Passwords & Accounts [iOS 10: Settings->Mail->Accounts; older than iOS 10: Settings->Mail, Contacts, Calendar] Touch Add Account Touch Google In the "Email or Phone" box, enter your username@hawaii.edu address. For example, if your UH email address is joe@hawaii.edu, enter joe@hawaii.edu. Touch Next At the next screen, login with your normal UH Username and password. At the next screen, select the items (Mail, Contacts, Calendar, Notes) that you wish to sync with your phone. An item is selected if it is "green". Tap the slider button for each item to toggle it as selected or not. Touch Save (in the upper right corner of the screen) The account will be added with the description "Gmail". To change this, touch on the account you just added. Touch on Account Change the "Description" line to something more descriptive, such as UH email. Touch Done (in the upper right corner of the screen). Touch Accounts, then Settings (upper left corner of the screen) to exit back to the Settings screen. If for some reason the above steps do not work, you can follow these steps to configure the iPhone/iPad to receive UH email as an IMAP client. Note this applies to hawaii.edu email only; if you have an email account with another provider such as RoadRunner, or another department such as soest.hawaii.edu, the configuration would be different. Note: Make sure you have enabled IMAP in Google@UH Gmail before you continue; instructions can be found here. On the Home screen, touch Settings, then touch Passwords & Accounts [iOS 10: Settings->Mail->Accounts; older than iOS 10: Settings->Mail, Contacts, Calendar] Touch Add Account Touch Other Touch Add Mail Account In the Name box, type your name as you want it to appear on outgoing mail messages In the Address box, type your hawaii.edu email address In the Password box, type your password In the Description box, type a simple description for your account, e.g. UH Mail Touch Next (in the upper right corner of the screen) On the next screen, make sure IMAP is selected Under the "Incoming Mail Server" section: In the Host Name box, type imap.gmail.com In the User Name box, type your <username@hawaii.edu> In the Password box, your password should already be filled in Scroll down. Under the "Outgoing Mail Server" section: In the Host Name box, type smtp.gmail.com In the User Name box, type your <username@hawaii.edu> In the Password box, type your password Touch Next (in the upper right corner of the screen) After your Mail information has been verified, make sure Mail is turned on (green), and turn on Notes if you wish to sync Notes. Touch Save (in the upper right corner of the screen). Touch Settings (upper left corner of the screen) to return to the main Settings window. You should now be able to touch the Mail icon on the Home screen and receive your UH email. If you have more than one email account configured, you may have to select your UH Mail account first, before you can see your messages.
