Question: Secure Web Browsing
Article Text: Many web sites that require sensitive, personal information to be transmitted (e.g. UH sites that require UH Username and password, banking and credit card sites, etc.) are setup with security in place to protect your data. However, this security only protects the data transferred between your web browser and that site. Many web browsers, in an effort to speed up web page load times, will temporarily store web page information (in a cache). Browsers may also store usernames and passwords to sites for your convenience. This stored information may not be deleted by your web browser for a while (depending on your browser's setup) and poses a potential security risk to sensitive information. Private Browsing Different browsers have a "private browsing" mode which prevents the browser from temporarily storing any data once the browser is closed. This alleviates any concern about sensitive information being put at risk. Here are instructions to turn on private browsing for some popular web browsers: Internet Explorer Microsoft Edge Firefox Safari (Mac) Chrome Clearing the Web Browser's Cache Refer to Ask Us 726 for instructions on how to clear your web browser's cache. You can configure some browsers to automatically clear their cache when you close the program. Setting up Internet Explorer Go to the Tools menu. You can also press Alt + X on your keyboard if the menu bar is hidden. Select Internet options from the menu. Go to the Advanced tab, and under Settings scroll down to the Security section and check the box next to Empty Temporary Internet Files folder when browser is closed. Click OK. Setting up Firefox Go to the Tools menu. (In Windows Vista/Windows 7, click on the Firefox menu in the upper left corner of your browser window) Click on Options. Click on the Privacy icon at the top of the Options window. Under the History section, select Use custom settings for history and check the box next to Clear history when Firefox closes. Click OK. Setting up Chrome Click on the wrench icon next to the address bar to open the menu and click on Options. The Options menu will open in a new browsing tab. Click on Under the Hood. Click on Content Settings in the Privacy section. Click on the checkbox next to Clear cookies and other site and plug-in data when I close my browser. Close Options.
