Question: Sending Email in Laulima
Article Text: Note: If this feature is enabled, it will be a clickable link on the left side of the screen. If you do not see it in the list, please talk to the group owner to have the tool enabled. You can send email (private messages) to an individual or group members using the Laulima Email tool. There are other tools such as using the Discussions and Private Messages feature. For more information on this feature click on the following link http://www.hawaii.edu/talent to find the feature you would like to learn more about. From your group homepage click on Email the left side of the screen. Under Compose you will see the following fields: From: This field should have your name and email address. To: You can chose to send mail to the following: All - this option will send mail to all users in the group. Roles - you can select certain roles. You can also select individual recipients within the role by clicking on the specific role: Instructor Student Teaching Assistant Sections - you can select certain sections within the site. Groups - you can select sub-groups that are defined by the instructor within the site. Add Other Recipient(s): - this allows you to send a message to users who are not enrolled in the site. Type in a UH or external email account, separate each email with a comma or semicolon. Subject: Enter the message subject here. Attach a file: Click here to attach a file from your harddrive. The maximum file size is 5MB. Message body: Type the message here. Hover your mouse over the toolbar icons to see what the formatting options are. Sent me a copy: This will send you a copy of the email sent if you put a check mark in it. Note: The email is sent through the Laulima client, so if this option is left unchecked you will not see the email in your Sent messages. Add to Email Archive, visible to all site participants: The email will be added to the course Email Archive. Append list of recipients to message: Recipients will see all others the email was sent to. When you are done creating your message, click on Send Mail. At any time you can hit Cancel at the bottom of the screen to stop the mail creation process. For information on other Laulima features, return to the main menu by clicking on the following link http://www.hawaii.edu/talent.
