Question: Sharing Files in Laulima
Article Text: Note: If this feature is enabled, it will be a clickable link on the left side of the screen. If you do not see it in the list, please talk to the group owner to have the tool enabled. You can post files to share with members of the group by using Laulima Resources. From your group homepage, click on Resouces on the left side of the screen. On this screen you have the following menu options: Site Resources - On this tab the Location should be the name of the group you are currently viewing. You will have the following menus: Title - Click on the icon next to the word Title to change the sorting to ascending or descending. Actions - Next to each resource you will have an Actions tab. Click the small arrow in order to get a drop down menu of options. The options that you see depends on your level of access in the site. If you have permission to add resources, you will see an additional Add button next to Actions. Access - Shows who has access to view the resource. Created By - Lists who added the resource to the site. Modified - Shows the date the resource was last modified Size - Shows the size of the file. To download a resource, click on the underlined name of the resource you'd like to download. If the icon next to the resource is a folder, clicking on it will open the folder and list the files located in the folder. To return to the main resource page click on the Location link above the resource list. If the icon next to the resource has the icon for a word doc or spreadsheet, clicking on the link will give you the option to download or open the file (depending on your browser settings). You can also click on Show other sites on the bottom of the page to show resources from all of your groups or sites. Upload-Download Multiple Resources - follow the instructions on this page to upload multiple files quickly from your computer using WebDAV. If you are the owner of the group you may see the following menu option: Options - Allows you to change resource options for the group. For information on other Laulima features, return to the main menu by clicking on the following link http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/935.
