Question: Sharing Links in Laulima
Article Text: Note: If this feature is enabled, it will be a clickable link on the left side of the screen. If you do not see it in the list, please talk to the group owner to have the tool enabled. There are many different ways that you can post URLs in Laulima to share with the group. You can post them with text in the Wiki, Blog, Annoucements, or even in the Discussion area. For more information on using these tools, click on the followining link http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/935 and select the feature you'd like to use. To post a URL and have it notify the class that it has been posted, you can use the Resources section. From your group homepage, click on Resouces on the left side of the screen. In the section for the groups resources click on Add and then Add Web Links (URLs). On the next screen, type in the web address (for example www.cnn.com) in the section marked Web Address (URL). The name of the website will be autofilled on the next line, if you wish to change it delete what is currently there and then add the name of the website (for example CNN) in the section marked Website Name. Click on Add details for this item if you wish to add a Description for the URL. (This is useful if you are going to alert group members via email notification of the posted URL). Select who should be able to see this item under Avaliability and Access. You can also schedule the resource to only be visible during certain dates. Under Optional properties you can choose to change properties such as the title, creator, publisher or other information you would like to tag the URL with. If you would like to add another link at the same time, fill out the information under Add Another Web Link. You can choose to send an Email Notification with either high or low priority. You can also choose not to send a notification. If you do choose to send a notification, the group users will get an email with the following information in the email. Notification that a new URL has been posted. The location of the new URL. The description that you can add in the Description section. A link to the URL inside Laulima. When you are finished click on Add Web Links Now. For information on other Laulima features, return to the main menu by clicking on the following link http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/935.
