Question: Participating in Group Discussions in Laulima
Article Text: Note: If this feature is enabled, it will be a clickable link on the left side of the screen. If you do not see it in the list, please talk to the group owner to have the tool enabled. You can start and respond to discussions in Laulima by using Laulima Discussion and Private Messages. From your group homepage, click on Discussion and Private Messages on the left side of the screen. By default on the main discussion page you will see sections for Questions, Class Discussions, and the Student Lounge. This categories can be changed and additional ones can be added by the site administrator. If there is anything posted to any of the sections there will be a number of under the Topics or Messages headings. You can check the status of the messages in each section be matching the icon next to the section heading to the one at the bottom of the page. This is useful as a way to quickly check if there are New Messages for you to read. To read messages that have been posted in a discussion section, click on the section where the Discussion is listed under. Once you are inside the Topic section, click on the topic where the message is you want to read. You will now see a thread of messages that you can read or respond to. To respond to a message, click on postreply at the top or bottom of the page. This will allow you to reply to the thread with a message. You can attach files or insert URL's to this message. If you need to refer back to the original message, you can scroll down to see an abbrivated version of the message thread. To post a new topic, click on the section where you would like the topic to be and click on newtopic at the top or bottom of the page. In the Subject section type in the name of your topic. This subject will be used as the topic name for group members to click on. In the Message body section type your question or comment to the group. If you want to start a discussion between one member or a subset of group members you can click on the Private Messages option at the top of the page. This will allow you to create and send messages to only the people you choose using the Discussions interface. The recipient will be notified via email that they have a new Private Message. To learn more about Discussions and Private messages click on the following link http://www.hawaii.edu/itsdocs/net/gs_laulima_group_collabv4.pdf.
