Question: The UH Identity Management System
Article Text: The University of Hawai'i Identity Management System (UHIMS) collects and consolidates information concerning people associated with the University so that UH may better establish and manage a single, permanent identity for each person. This unique identity enables a person to access all of the appropriate online resources centrally hosted by the University. Middleware is considered to be software glue that enables disparate administrative applications, such as Banner and PeopleSoft, to work together. UHIMS is middleware. It provides UH the ability to automatically enable and disable access to online resources, such as email, Laulima, eCafe, lab computers, and administrative and student online resources, such as MyUH. One of the early accomplishments of UHIMS was to establish the UH Number as a replacement for the Social Security Number (SSN) in order to better protect our community members from identity theft; it is no longer appropriate to use the SSN as a unique identifier. The UH Number has been called "employee ID number" and "student ID number". Whether a person is a student, faculty, staff, affiliate, ohana, retiree, or some combination of these, a person's UH Number remains the same. Closely associated with the UH Number is a UH Username. The UH Username is used to establish your email address, and, along with a unique password of your choice, it will be your key to using the University's online resources. As a member of the UH community, one sometimes traverses many roles (student, faculty, staff, affiliate, retiree, ohana) and, at times, is in multiple roles at once. UHIMS tracks a person's roles to help ensure that each person has access to the appropriate online resources and services. Additionally, UHIMS provides each person with email updates of role changes that might impact one's access to services, listing in the UH Online Directory, etc. UHIMS implements the following policies as of 2023: Students, Faculty, Staff, Retirees and Emeriti, by default, have access to basic online services (see Resources below for links to more information). Retirees and Emeriti retain basic online services by subscription; they will receive annual email messages reminding them to confirm renewal for another year. Students and pre-students who do not register for classes, and Faculty and Staff that leave employment at UH (retiring is not quite the same thing) automatically transition to a UHIMS role of 'Ohana and, by default, are granted a 180-day grace period during which continued access to email and other basic online services is provided. During the grace period, the option to enroll in our 'Ohana online services is provided. See Resources below for more information on Online Services for 'Ohana. The option to enroll in our 'Ohana online services is available to users prior to losing their active affiliation and during their grace period. Enrollment is retained by annual renewal; reminders to renew will be sent by email. The grace period is provided so that data, files, etc. can be archived by the owner and relocated (see Resources below for a link to instructions on saving mail and webpage data to your computer). At the end of the grace period for ohana, all files are deleted from UH servers, which includes personal webpages. Enrollment in our 'Ohana online services will preserve access to the UH email account and all mail data stored there. For 'Ohana that do not renew their annual enrollment in our 'Ohana online services, all Google@UH data (including emails stored in Gmail, documents stored in Drive, calendar and contact data, etc.) is removed and access to log in with their UH Username and password is revoked. Beginning on 1/29/2024, 'Ohana users are provided with 7.5 GB of storage quota for their Google@UH account. Users will have the entire length of their grace period (180 days) in order to review their storage usage and download/export/delete emails, files, and photos to bring their usage under their 7.5 GB quota. 'Ohana users who exceed their quota may have their UH Usernames disabled. This will result in the loss of access to associated services and the loss of all data stored within their Google@UH account (including emails stored in Gmail, documents stored in Drive, calendar and contact data, etc.). See Resources below for more information on 'Ohana Google@UH storage limitations and quotas. For retirees that do not renew their annual subscription for UH basic online services, all Google@UH data (including emails stored in Gmail, documents stored in Drive, calendar and contact data, etc.) is removed, including personal webpages. For emeriti that do not renew their annual subscription upon expiration, all Google@UH data (including emails stored in Gmail, documents stored in Drive, calendar and contact data, etc.) is removed, including personal webpages. Exclusive to Emeriti, there is an option to request that personal webpages continue to be preserved for as long as possible for the benefit of the larger academic community. While ITS makes no promises, the content will be left intact and accessible for as long as possible. The department of the faculty member continues to have the option to request that the pages be taken down. Resources Your UH Username: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/719 UH Online Directory: https://www.hawaii.edu/dir The UH Online Directory and Students: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/928 Online resources for Faculty and Staff: https://www.hawaii.edu/its/facultystaff.html Online resources for Students: https://www.hawaii.edu/its/students.html Online Services for 'Ohana: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/932 Enrolling in 'Ohana online services: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1137 'Ohana Google@UH Storage Policy and Quotas: https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1891 Saving Email and Personal Webpages (Mac OS X): https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/977 Saving Email and Personal Webpages (Windows): https://www.hawaii.edu/askus/978 ITS Help Desk: https://www.hawaii.edu/its/help-desk
