Question: UHvirus-alert Listserv: How to Subscribe/Unsubscribe
Article Text: To Subscribe to the UHvirus-alert List via the Web Log into LISTSERV (see Accessing LISTSERV via the Web) Type "uhvirus-alert" into the text field underneath Access Unlisted Lists and click Search. There will be a button with 3 horizontal bars along the right side of the page. Click on it and select Subscribe or Unsubscribe. If not already filled in, type your name into the Name field. Modify your subscription preferences as you see fit and click Subscribe. A notice will be sent to your email address. To confirm your subscription, click on the link provided in the email. You will receive a message from LISTSERV indicating that you have been subscribed. To Unsubscribe from the UHvirus-alert List via the Web Log into LISTSERV (see Accessing LISTSERV via the Web) Under Subscriber Options in the menu on the left, select Subscriptions. You may need to click on the > button in the top-left corner to unhide the menu. Check the box next to UHVIRUS-ALERT. From the drop-down menu at the bottom of the List Name column, select the Unsubscribe option and click Update. To Subscribe to the UHvirus-alert List via Email Using the email address you would like to subscribe with, send an email to listserv@lists.hawaii.edu with no subject and the body of the message containing the "subscribe" command followed by "uhvirus-alert" and your first and last names (e.g., subscribe uhvirus-alert John Doe). Make sure that the subject line is empty and there is no other text in the body of the message, including your email signature. A notice will be sent to your email address. To confirm your subscription, click on the link provided in the email. You will receive a message from LISTSERV indicating that you have been subscribed. Alternatively, you will receive an error message if you typed the command or list name incorrectly. To Unsubscribe from the UHvirus-alert List via Email Using the email address you subscribed with, send an email to listserv@lists.hawaii.edu with no subject and the body of the message containing the "signoff" command followed by "uhvirus-alert" (e.g., signoff uhvirus-alert). Make sure that the subject line is empty and there is no other text in the body of the message, including your email signature. You will receive a message from LISTSERV indicating that you have been unsubscribed. Alternatively, you will receive an error message if you typed the command or list name incorrectly.
