Question: Be Cyber-Savvy
Article Text: Computer technology is continually advancing at an energetic pace, and the Internet can be a dangerous place if you are caught unaware! To help you become Cyber-Savvy, UH Information Technology Services has developed some tips to help keep you safe. If you need any further information call the ITS Help Desk at (808) 956-8883 or (800) 558-2669 from neighbor islands; or email your question to help@hawaii.edu Expunge Your Web Mail http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/612 Has it been a while since you received new messages in your UH Web mail account? Perhaps you’ve maxed out your allotted storage space on the UH mail Server. When you use the Delete button to clear messages they will disappear from view, however they still occupy space within your quota. Be Cyber-Savvy, read the AskUs article Web Mail and your Quota for tips on using the Expunge button to permanently erase messages and open up space in your quota. P2P File-sharing http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/813 Are you downloading or sharing music, movies, TV shows, or games using Peer-2-Peer software? If so, ITS reminds you that Peer-2-Peer file-sharing utilities can pose a hazard to your privacy and to the security of all files on your computer. Illegal file-sharing may lead to prosecution and jeopardizes your access to the Internet through the University. Be Cyber-Savvy about P2P file-sharing, read the AskUs article Copyright & DMCA Issues at UH. Computer Security http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/892 Does your computer seem to have a mind of its’ own? Does it run slowly? Does your desktop look different or contain new icons? Are strange programs running in the background? These are all signs that your computer security may have been compromised. Be Cyber-Savvy about computer security, read the AskUs article, “If you suspect that your account has been compromised.” SPAM http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/687 SPAM may taste great in a musubi however the little four-letter word can also stand for “Stupid Pointless Annoying Messages.” And SPAM is not so great when it fills your email Inbox. Be Cyber-Savvy when it comes to blocking unsolicited electronic messages by reading the AskUs article, “Security (or lack of it) on the Internet.” Social-Networking http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/994 Nothing posted is private, regardless of what your online friends or social-networking sites may imply; and what you post may be online forever. While it may be fun today to see your face or name appear on sites like You-Tube, Flickr, Facebook, or MySpace, future employers may not think the same way. It’s better to be safe than sorry, think twice before uploading videos, photos, or personal information. Be Cyber-Savvy about social networking, read the Ask Us article Nothing Posted is Private! Password Precautions http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/705 Just as your passport confirms who you are and provides freedom while traveling, your electronic password confirms your identity online. Always practice caution when using your passwords out on the Internet. Don’t share your passwords with anyone; who knows what others might do in your name. Be Cyber-Savvy about password precautions, read the AskUs article Password Guidelines for helpful tips. Securely Deleting Electronic Information http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/706 In today’s digital age, paper has been replaced by magnetic media for storage of personal details like addresses, phone numbers, photos, and even banking information. Simply deleting your details from magnetic media may not be enough to prevent identity theft. Be Net-Savvy about safeguarding your data, read the AskUs article Securely Deleting Electronic Information. Saving Money On Software Purchases http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/975 The purchase price of a computer is compounded by the costs of the security software you’ll need to purchase to keep the computer running smoothly; and this can take a big chunk out of your budget. ITS offers discounted and in some cases free security software, statistical programs, and even publishing and bibliographic management tools. Be Cyber-Savvy about purchasing software, read the AskUs article ITS Site Licensing Office Offers Discounted Software. Do You Know Where You Are Going? Browsing the Web Safely! http://www.hawaii.edu/askus/1063 Do you really know what web site you are going to when you click on that link? Are you sure? When searching for information on the Internet, do you really know if that's a reputable website? Be Cyber-Savvy and keep yourself safe when browsing the Internet. Read the AskUs article: “Do You Know Where You Are Going? Browsing the Web Safely!” for tips on safe browsing.
