Question: UH Username End of Life - Saving Email and Personal Webpages (Windows)
Article Text: This document is for users who are no longer affiliated with UH, and who have received a notice that they have 180 day grace period before their email and personal webpage data are removed from the UH servers. The following instructions show you how to copy webpage data and emails stored on your UH account to a local drive on your computer. Saving your UH Email You will also need to copy any email stored on your UH email account that you wish to keep after your 180 day grace period ends. We recommend using Google Takeout to export and download all email messages from your UH email account. Please note that you will need to enable Consumer Apps to use Google Takeout with your UH account. Saving personal webpages using FileZilla Prior to the end of your 180 day grace period, you will need to copy any data stored on the UHUnix server onto your own computer. The data stored on UHUnix includes any personal webpages that you created on your allocated UH web space at http://www2.hawaii.edu/~youruhusername. Note: This section was written using the FileZilla client on Windows 10. Other SFTP applications should work as well, but the procedures may differ. Use the FileZilla client to connect using either Quickconnect or Site Manager. Please refer to the Filezilla for Windows article for assistance with installation of FileZilla for Windows. Once authenticated, you will be taken to your home directory in UHUnix, and you should see any data stored on the server on the right side of the window. Next, open the folder on your computer where you would like to copy your data to in the left pane of the FileZilla client window. Optionally, you can create a new folder on your computer through the FileZilla client by right-clicking and selecting create directory or create directory and enter it. Using the create directory and enter it option places you in the correct directory on the local side. Copy the data from UHUnix to the open folder on your computer by selecting the folders or files that you want from the right side of the window, and dragging them to the left side. Multiple items may be selected by pressing CTRL+A (to select all items), or by holding SHIFT or CTRL and clicking on the items you want to select. Once the copy finishes, verify your files by browsing to the folder where your data was copied on your computer using My Computer in Windows.
